DAN McDONNELL: Just want to congratulate Florida State, Coach Martin and his staff. A lot of respect for that program. That was fun. That was fun playing against those guys. You know, I told these guys in the outfield how proud I was of them. What a fun week of baseball. This was good for us. We hadn't played great in the conference tournament in some time, so this was a lot of fun. We grew up a lot this week, we got better, and if anything we got prepared for the postseason. Obviously these two guys sitting to my right have been phenomenal the last few weeks, and obviously, man, they were locked in this week.

You know, we leave Durham obviously disappointed that we didn't come away with the championship, but a new season begins, and I'm sure we're feeling really good. We were very offensive this week. We got some quality starts, and we're playing good baseball. We weren't great today, but that's the game. We'll bounce back Friday and look forward to the next challenge.

Q. It seemed like this game was just one of those back and forth, taking punches, giving punches back. Was it kind of a grind out there? It seemed like you guys still had all kinds of energy there in the 10th, that between-innings rally in the dugout. But how was the mood throughout the course of this game?
JOSH STOWERS: Yeah, throughout the entire game we had the utmost confidence. Obviously we didn't pull it out in the last inning, but throughout the entire season we've been down and we've come back. I think we have like 20-plus come-from-behind wins. We know we're never out of any game. We're never sad or down on ourselves any time we don't have the lead.

DEVIN MANN: I thought we did a good job of just staying even keel the whole game. Obviously I had two crucial errors that killed us, by I thought we did a good job of bouncing back, just playing the game as it was and just playing the game hard in the right way.

Q. When you play Florida State you probably expect a game like this. What do you guys feel about their team overall after having seen them for the fourth time this year?
DEVIN MANN: I mean, they've got a good team. We know what they're about. They like to take pitches deep in counts. We think that we can compete with anybody in the country. Obviously they're a good team, and we let one slide today, and it hurts, but it will be better for us in the postseason.

Q. Devin, what was the deal with your bat in the fifth inning?
DEVIN MANN: I have no idea. I mean, I hit the double and then the umpire came up to me and said it was like dented or something like when I hit it, so he said I just couldn't use it anymore, so I just used another one.

Q. Coach, obviously a pretty successful week overall here. I imagine you would have loved to win the game, but you have to walk away feeling pretty satisfied about the state of your club heading into the postseason.
MIKE MARTIN: No doubt. That's what I said in the opening statement. I stood out there in left field and told those guys how much fun it was this week. Keep their head up. I know it hurts today, but there are teams that lose in their conference tournament and their season is over, and for many, their career is over. For us, it was just a stepping-stone. It was a learning tool that we can play good baseball and we can play tournament baseball, as we feel like we have for the last month. This was fun.

You know, we've been home by the weekend in the past, and as much as I love my family and I missed them this week and I look forward to getting home to see them, the goal was to play through Sunday, and we did, and we'll be one of the last teams in the country getting back from their conference tournament, and that's because we were in the championship game. I told the guys out there how much fun -- we're playing on ESPN on Sunday afternoon for an ACC championship. I enjoyed it. I know these guys enjoyed it. I know it hurts right now, but the sun will come up tomorrow, and we'll be tougher for it, and we'll be ready, ready to compete next weekend.

MIKE MARTIN: You know, there's a lot of things that I could say about the ballgame that we just played, but -- and there's a lot I can say about the guy to my immediate right, but the guy that's to my far right is one of a kind, the way he plays the game, the way he competes, the way he can take an at-bat and throw it away after maybe slamming the bat back in the bat rack and then putting the shin guards on and going on, and totally the mind is void of that at-bat because he knows the importance of working with that pitcher. And Cal Raleigh, I watched him very closely on that last at-bat, and you could see the fatigue. Did he make any excuses? Did he pout? Did he crouch behind the plate like, oh, let's get this thing over with? No. He is such a team player.

That kind of stuff is contagious, and he has brought so much to this baseball team, and I'm proud that he is a Seminole is the best way for me to say it. But I can also say that this was a big moment for all of us because if we get a regional this time, holy smoke, if we go to a regional. We don't know if we're going to get one or not, but if we happen to host, and the four teams that we played up here, I'm gonna tell you what; this is a great league. This is a great league.

Q. This game had to be a grind, right, mentally, physically? Four plus hours, I think, you're back and forth there, throwing haymakers, you're throwing haymakers. What was that experience like out there today?
DREW MENDOZA: I think it was a lot like last night. We've walked off three or four times in the last 10 games, so we're used to the extra-inning feel. I think that proved true here. I think we were -- we still had energy going into extras, and that played off for us.

CAL RALEIGH: Yeah, I mean, those last three games we played, NC State, Clemson, Louisville, it's -- I mean, I don't know if I've ever been part of such high-energy, locked-in games like that, just crazy. The atmosphere, just -- if you're on the field, you can just tell what was at stake and just how the teams were playing. It was crazy. We played a really good game, and we were able to get it done.

Q. And you guys, you had that 5-1 lead early, probably had to be a little bit demoralizing to see them get seven unanswered there on you, but you guys fought back. What does that say about the character of this team?
DREW MENDOZA: I think that's what we've done all year. We've never counted ourselves out. We're a big-inning club. We always play for that big inning. We know it's going to come at some point. We hadn't had it up to that point, and then we eventually got it and we kept grinding out at-bats.

Q. The double there in the 10th, could you take us through that at-bat? What were you looking for and what did you get?
DREW MENDOZA: I'm just looking for a fastball over the plate, something I can drive. I'm trying to hit a fly ball deep so they could score the run on a sac fly. When I went up 2-0, my approach kind of turned a little bit. I could get a bigger swing on that, and he threw one over the plate that I could handle, and I put a good swing on it.

Q. Mike, the three titles in four years back to back, can you put that in any kind of perspective in terms of what you've been able to accomplish these last -- just these last few years in the ACC, regardless of everything else in your tenure, to do it in that time frame?
MIKE MARTIN: Well, credit goes to these young men and the good Lord. We just play hard. We don't give up. We don't look at any situation as being over or relaxing if we get a lead.

These two guys were a part of two -- we got beat '16 when you were a freshman, didn't we? But it's -- it takes a lot of luck.

I mean, look at today's game. He makes an outstanding play that could have been a double. He just happened to be positioned perfectly by my wife's son. I mean, it's just one of those things that you could have felt sorry as a hitter, like Rafael Bournigal hits that ball to left field, and what a great play their left fielder makes; saved them two runs. But there was no quit in either club, and we just happened to get a big couple of breaks there. But we took advantage of those breaks.

Q. It feels very familiar just because it seems like every year at this time of the year you're playing your best baseball. I don't know how you guys do it, but what's the secret? Sometimes even when it's a winding road and there's things that you have to learn about your club over the course of the season, how do you always get them in position to play like this at this time of year?
MIKE MARTIN: That is a great question, and I'm going to answer it exactly the way I feel, and if it sounds corny, then the heck with it. They've got good mamas and daddies, and we get to know their families. We didn't get to know -- well, I knew Todd, but I didn't get to know his family until they came in for an official visit. We got to know Drew's mother and daddy. We find out what kind of people they are. You win with people, and we have good-character people.

This guy is very much involved in a student advisory committee. Cal is involved in doing the best he can do in the classroom, pulling a very impressive GPA, did what he needed to do, knowing there's a good chance that this is his last semester.

But those are the kind of people that we want in our program. We don't want guys that are only looking at themselves, and nothing could be proven better than what he did in that inning when he punched out and he's walking back to the bench, and you could have fried an egg on his head, and he was hotter -- I'm telling you. He comes back over. I heard the bat go in the bat rack. I can tell normally whose bat it was going in.

But what did he do? Stuck his shin guards on, and before he went out, patted the pitcher on the back and said something like, "stay tough." I can't teach that. I can't teach that. I wish I could take credit for that. It comes from his mama and daddy.

Q. Was there a moment this year where -- I know you had a good year start to finish, but was there a moment when you felt it really start to click, could see this momentum really coming?
CAL RALEIGH: You know, it's a long year. It's not -- it's a marathon, it's not a sprint. You know, our coaches do a great job of explaining that and getting us ready for this time of the year. You know, there's a reason why the past couple years we've been playing really well at the right time. We've got a great coaching staff, and they teach us along the way and get us ready. A lot of teams peak at the wrong time of the year. Early in the year you'll be a No. 1 team and then you'll see teams just drop.

With us, that hasn't happened. It feels like we're climbing, and we want to take that momentum into regionals and super regionals and get back to Omaha.

MIKE MARTIN: Let me thank the Atlantic Coast Conference for a first-class job. We really enjoyed our time here, and thanks to all of you for being here and covering this tournament because it's a dadgum good tournament. Thanks to all of you and the attention that you gave this tournament.

THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Arkansas coach Dave Van Horn, student-athletes Luke Bonfield, Carson Shaddy, and Grant Koch. Dave, give us an overview.

COACH VAN HORN: Well, I thought that it was a pretty good ballgame, obviously, for many innings there. And I felt like Murphy got off to a slow start, hitting a lot of balls hard, but he settled in. We wanted him to pitch up in the zone a little bit to a couple of guys. Got some fly balls, deep fly balls, that's what we were looking for a little bit.

He gave us four-plus innings. And then Kole Ramage came in and did a tremendous job getting us out of the bases-loaded jam, gave up one run. We lived on the edge a lot tonight obviously. Finally got us there with two outs. It was tough a play down the right field line, kind of that no-man's-land ball, stand's coming up, got a second shot and fouled off a couple of pitches and tried to get it inside and the ball ran back out over the plate. Really nice piece of hitting. And they tied it up obviously. And the big two-run homer.

But it was a tough loss. What do you do? You got a chance to play for a national championship going down the last day. Just gotta fight through it.

THE MODERATOR: Questions.

Q. Carson, the foul ball play, can you talk us through what you saw on that and y'all's reaction to what you have to face now?
CARSON SHADDY: You know, it's a tough play. I was running, and didn't hear anybody call it. So I just kept running trying to make the play and overran it. It's a tough break. Just have to get back out tomorrow and we're really confident in Isaiah and we're ready to go.

Q. Such a hard-fought series, nip and tuck the whole way, one game left to go. How do you shake that off and go into Game 3?
CARSON SHADDY: Yeah, just come out and play the game that we've been playing. We still haven't put together our best day with the bats. And I think that's coming.

We're very confident in Isaiah and his abilities and we're really confident as a team, and I think it's going to be a good day for us tomorrow.

GRANT KOCH: Yeah, I think just like he said, we're all ready to play. I think for a lot of us, a lot of us are local and some of the guys that aren't, but it's one more day for us to be a Razorback, and that's all you can ask.

One or two teams left standing in the last day of the College World Series. You can't ask for much more. We're still standing, alive and ready to go for sure.

LUKE BONFIELD: What both of them said, we get one last opportunity to put on the uniform. No matter what, win or lose, and just go to battle with my brothers out there.

So I think it's going to be a hard-fought battle tomorrow.

Q. Grant, could you talk about what you might expect out of Isaiah tomorrow and what he's done for you guys lately?
GRANT KOCH: Yeah, we're expecting the same stuff he's had for a little while now. And we have all the confidence in the world in him. He's got four pitches that, you know, at times will command all of them. And that's what we expect tomorrow.

He's going to battle out there for us. He's been really, really good of late. And he's been really good in big-time situations, when we need him. And that's exactly what's going to happen.

Yeah, and, you know, I think that's what we all expect, and that's what we're going to get. So we have all the confidence in the world, like Carson said, and our defense is going to be there to back him up.

Q. Carson, after your big hit in the two-run inning, which included a couple of balls that barely fell into the grass, you had Casey racing to the plate, a couple of pretty big escapes by your pitchers on the mound. Did you guys feel even going into the ninth that you were kind of destined to get it done in this game?
CARSON SHADDY: Yeah, I think that's what both teams are trying -- both teams think they need to win and think they're going to win. And that's really the only answer I can give you. We got that hit and then it went up and held them for three innings and looked like it was right there for us. And some tough breaks happened.

THE MODERATOR: Thank you. Questions for Coach.

Q. The bullpen's been so good for you here. What did you see from those guys? And Cronin, could you use him tomorrow? Who would be available tomorrow?
COACH VAN HORN: I don't know. It's getting awful thin. And we're just going to -- we need a good start, obviously. Reindl didn't give us anything tonight, so he can go again. Scroggins can give us an inning or two. As far as Cronin and Loseke, that's maybe a hitter with Cronin, maybe with an inning with Loseke. We'll see, maybe nothing. It will be up to those guys when we see how they feel tomorrow.

And Ramage could go again a little bit. I thought he was effective tonight. But, you know, just off the top of my head those are a few of the guys.

Q. What do you expect out of your team tomorrow? You've got a good feel for the pulse of the team. What do you think is going to happen?
COACH VAN HORN: They've been tough all year. We've had some tough losses that some games that got away from us. And we just didn't play well.

So I think they're going to come out, give us a great effort. We've got to swing the bats a lot better. We haven't swung the bats good for two days. And we've been relying on pitching and they gave us another great effort today, the pitchers, and we just didn't score enough runs.

Q. Dave, what is your message to the team after the game tonight, just as far as overcoming a gut punch like that?
COACH VAN HORN: It was quick. It was just, hey, we get to play one more game. And what more could you ask for, you know? You gotta move on. You can't take it back, you know? It's over.

So get your head up and start getting your mind right because it's going to be tomorrow before you know it. And we need to come out here and give ourselves a chance.

Q. Dave, it happened pretty fast there from Grenier's hit to tie it and Larnach's homer. Was there anything you could do to slow it down? What was the mood in the dugout after the hit to tie it, and did you maybe feel something else coming?
COACH VAN HORN: Yeah, after the hit to tie it, we had a left on left. We weren't going to make a move there. He just probably ran out of gas. And the runner's hit, if you look back at the video, we had thrown a couple of pitches up and out and he fouled a couple off.

And he was going to try to bust him in. And if you look, your catcher set up in, has to go back right down the middle base hit to left. If he gets it in, who knows. But that's the way it works. I don't think there was really anything else we could do.

We pretty much put it in Cronin's hand there. Left on left, to get us in the dugout with a tie game and see if we can score a run and win it.

The mood in the dugout, yeah, there was disappointment. But I made a comment earlier in the game: Let's just get -- we get the last at-bats, let's tie it. Here we are. We would have taken it.

The way the game went, it didn't surprise me they would tie it. Really good at-bat by the lead-off man in the top of the ninth, fouled off a bunch of pitches and finally got walked.

And every time you walk somebody, walk comes back and gets you.


COACH VAN HORN: Sure. Just what an honor to be here. Obviously just real proud of the players throughout the season for being so resilient and just pulling for each other. It's been fun to watch, fun to be a part of. The whole College World Series experience has been incredible.

Congratulations to Coach Casey and his team, had an opportunity to watch them a few times here as well as throughout the season. Just really intrigued how a team went throughout the season, lost only five, six, seven games all year, pretty much duplicated it again this year.

So I try to catch them on TV when I could. Their games come on a little later than ours, catch them at night. Knew they were going to be here, hoping we'd have an opportunity once we got here watched them play and told Pat that I figured that they would fight their way through like they did. And I think it's going to be a great series.

THE MODERATOR: Pat.

COACH CASEY: First of all, it's an honor to be here and represent Oregon State University and congratulations to Arkansas, Dave and his club. They're outstanding. They've been terrific from start to finish.

I think anytime you knock off the defending champion, it says something about your club. We know this is going to be a heck of a series. Proud of our guys and the way they've handled themselves as a team, the things we've built and knowing a lot of those kids won't be here next year makes it even more special.

Like I say, whenever I come here every year, anybody that has an opportunity to play in the College World Series in my opinion gets to play in the greatest sporting event in our country I know speaking on behalf of myself the rest of the staff, Oregon State University and our players, it's truly a thrill to be here.

THE MODERATOR: Let me introduce the players up here. Blaine Knight, junior pitcher from Arkansas. Carson Shaddy, senior second baseman from Fayetteville where he played for the Purple Bulldogs. Nick Madrigal, the junior second baseman, the Beavers, from Elk Grove, California, and Adley Rutschman, sophomore catcher for the Beavers from Sherwood, Oregon.

Questions for the student-athletes.

Q. Nick, many people, many people say that baseball is a game of failure and that to be successful you need to regularly overcome obstacles. What advice can you give to an aspiring D-I athlete on overcoming adversity to ultimately find yourself in Omaha?
NICK MADRIGAL: There's always going to be people, negative people in the world, whether you're in baseball or other sports or in life.

For me, at a young age, I set goals, and there's a lot of people along the way that told me I was too small or couldn't do things. But I was so determined to reach my goals and not worry about anything anyone else said and I worked every single day for those goals. And I still have goals to this point. I wouldn't worry about what other people think out there. If you want something bad enough, you're not going to worry about the other people. I think if you set goals and work for them, I think everything else will kind of take care of itself.

Q. Adley, growing up in Sherwood, you've seen what Pat's been able to grow over there. Were you in first or second grade when they last went? Just to be on this stage, obviously of what your grandpas all taught you, and just being here, can you take yourself back to being a kid watching them on TV and now here you are?
ADLEY RUTSCHMAN: Growing up you watch the Oregon State program you figure out what it's all about, and from a young age I wanted to go to Oregon State. That's the only place I ever set a goal of going to.

And when I got the opportunity to play here, seeing what the previous teams had done, winning two national championships back to back and just to be able to get an opportunity to go here twice and now play for another national championship, I feel very fortunate just to be with the team that we have here and just the guys and the character that they all have around them. It's something special. And I'm just really excited to be a part of it.

Q. Blaine, what have you been able to see of Oregon State so far? What do you think of their lineup and have you gotten a glimpse of them here?
BLAINE KNIGHT: Yeah, I mean, they can obviously swing it really, really well. And top to bottom they're really solid. And I don't have a plan yet, but Coach Johnson, I'll get with him later this afternoon, get some stuff together.

But I'm really looking forward to it. They're all around a really solid team.

Q. What you've seen of the Arkansas pitching staff, have you had a chance to look at them since you've been here?
NICK MADRIGAL: We caught briefly, some of the games on TV. They're all around a really good team. They throw the ball in the zone, mix up different speeds. Haven't got into scouting reports yet. We'll probably do that later on today and go more in depth of different plans, what to look for.

But we've caught some games on TV briefly. It's going to make for a really good series. We're excited to get out there tomorrow. I'm sure the crowd is going to be buzzing like it has in the last couple of games, but, yeah, we're definitely excited to get it going.

ADLEY RUTSCHMAN: Just what Nick said. To get to this point, you know, it's not easy. I think it's a real testament to their team. Obviously they have a lot of great players on the team. They swing the bat well and they pitch well. I think everyone was just excited at this point to enjoy a great series and have the opportunity to play for the national championship.

Q. Nick, Adley said he grew up wanting to play for Oregon State. When did the Beavers kind of flash on your radar?
NICK MADRIGAL: You know, growing up, I've always -- my whole family has always been a baseball family. I've watched baseball from a really young age. I would honestly say not until probably freshman year of high school, probably eighth grade.

I had a friend, close friend that went to the same high school, Jake Rodriguez, he caught on the 2013 team. I looked up to him. He went to the same high school. He was the best player around. And when I saw him in a Beaver uniform, I kind of fell in love with it.

And once I got up to Corvallis for myself, yeah, I immediately knew that's the place that I wanted to be and the program I wanted to win for. So I would probably say not until eighth grade when I got on campus, checked out the facilities, talked to the coaches. I knew that's the place where I wanted to be.

Q. Pat, can you speak to the level of resolve it takes to win four straight elimination games, and can that serve you well going into the series, or either of the players?
NICK MADRIGAL: We really haven't thought too much about elimination games or being -- we've taken every single game -- we've approached the same all year long, no matter if we're in Omaha or regular season game. We've tried to go out there and be aggressive and not worry about how many games we have to win to get to this point or anything like that.

The coaches do a great job of telling us just to stay in the moment, take it one pitch at a time, play our game, and hopefully the rest will take care of itself.

And it has to this point. Moving forward, we're going to take it the same like we would any other game.

ADLEY RUTSCHMAN: Yeah, you know, when you lose the first game, seeing the task ahead, I think it's really important to just take everything one step at a time, one game at a time, one pitch at a time.

I mean, I think our team has a lot of great guys who have been here before who have overcome obstacles, and we really had to come together there to win those four games. And I'm just really proud of what our team's been able to accomplish so far.

Q. Carson, Blaine and Nick and Adley, Arkansas first, what have you learned about your team when you started in September with your fall ball and your intersquad games and building through everything and all the things you did during tough conference play postseason play to get to this point right now? Maybe reflect on your team, your style and what it means.
BLAINE KNIGHT: From early on, the fall, you could kind of tell the team's going to be special, especially put everything together. And we played like we're supposed to play.

And we really showed a true testament what this team was, especially we ran into Mississippi State when they were really hot and they swept us, and it didn't get us down. We bounced right back. Every time we got punched in the mouth we bounced back, truly a testament how good mentally this team is and how good we are.

CARSON SHADDY: Along the lines how mentally tough we are, we have a lot of older guys on this team and we have a bunch of expectations, and I think the older guys showed the younger guys expectations are just opinions and only thing that matters is what we do in the dugout and on the field.

I think that's driven us, and I truly believe that. And the talent shows. We've got guys on the lineup the whole lineup 1 through 9 that can do it. And then the guys on the mound are three studs and our bullpen as well.

It's been a really good season. We're really happy to be here and we're looking forward to the matchup against Oregon State.

NICK MADRIGAL: I think ever since day one we knew we were returning a lot of the same core group of guys from last year that went through everything we did.

We're excited to get together. We knew we had a lot of freshman coming in that could help us out a lot. We have to give them a lot of credit. Like Kevin Abel pitching yesterday, that's probably one of the biggest starts of his career and he did awesome for us.

And we really bonded, we brought in the freshmen, tried to tell them to relax and play the same game. They're at Oregon State for a reason. And we've known from day one that they could help us out. And this team's really, really closely bonded, from the first day I stepped on campus with the seniors I had from my freshman year, it seems like a family atmosphere. That's the way Oregon State is. And we're excited from day one about this season and hopefully we can keep it rolling. But we have a lot of great guys on the team.

ADLEY RUTSCHMAN: Coming in day one we had a lot of the same guys as last year, but with the new freshmen group a lot of different personalities coming in, you don't know how it's going to mesh and you know sometimes the freshmen guys, new guys will have to step up in different situations and see how they respond. And I think that I think our older guys did a great job of accepting all the new guys and guys like Kevin Abel, Christian Chamberlain, and all the guys have really had to step up in the College World Series, have really made huge strides from the beginning of the season.

And I think that they've done a really great job of stepping up mentally and even when they're not feeling great, they don't have their stuff. And I think that just as a team we're really closely bonded, and that's probably the biggest reason that they've been able to step up.

Q. You guys have played a lot of games in a short period of time. How are you holding up physically and mentally?
ADLEY RUTSCHMAN: The first game was pretty hot one for us. And we weren't able to win that. But just kind of moving forward you got a lot more games in the losers's bracket, and you kind of have to stick with the same mentality, whether the weather affects you or not, feeling sore or tired. We've got guys pitching on very little rest and coming up back-to-back days and whatnot.

So just trying to keep that focus on the end goal and what we're really working towards, and it's a short season right now. And, I mean, very few games left. So I think guys realize that it's all or nothing from this point and we're just kind of focusing on ourselves and what we need to do.

NICK MADRIGAL: During the offseason, we didn't wake up at 6.00 a.m. every other day and out there all day at practice just to be tired at the end of the season where we want to be. So we've put in all the work during the offseason to this point.

There's no time to be tired. I'm sure not everyone is feeling completely healthy or whatever it may be. But the coaches have got their message across to us if you're going out there and you're not -- so you're probably not playing as hard as you can, but, yeah, you know we're feeling good right now.

We're excited for the matchup, and we're going to take it one step at a time.

Q. Carson and Blaine, you guys are used to playing four and five games a week, but you've had a lot of downtime here. How have you managed that, and is there any anticipation for getting into a normal week this week?
CARSON SHADDY: You know, yeah, for sure we've had a lot of downtime. We really just try to get our bodies right. That's the most important thing. We've got a big three games coming up. And we've spent a lot of time in the hotel watching games, we watched their games last night and the night before, and just kind of taking it easy.

BLAINE KNIGHT: To piggyback off what Carson said, we've had downtime, mainly just recovering and getting our bodies ready to go for this series coming up because we know it's not going to be easy and it's going to take every bit of energy we've got.

Q. Carson, when growing up I'm sure one of your goals was to play in the Little World Series, then the State Championship for your high school. Then when you set foot on campus, your goal was to get to Omaha. As you take a step back, has it sunk in that you are living a dream that so many guys share but few get to experience this week?
CARSON SHADDY: Yeah, it's kind of incredible just what you're saying. There's just a very few amount of guys that get a chance to play for a national title.

And, you know, the whole high school scene is a little bit more attainable. And lucky enough I got to play for a state championship and we won my senior year.

And when you come to school, that's definitely the main goal. If you're a D-I athlete and you don't have that goal, then you probably shouldn't be playing.

But now that we're actually in the conversation to put that banner up in 2018, it's pretty incredible. And, again, we're really excited.

Q. Carson and Blaine, curious if you guys could speak to how Casey Martin's speed can change a game?
BLAINE KNIGHT: I mean, Marty is really -- he's an incredible athlete. You saw the ball he hit the other night. That was a little chopper back in the middle and he beat it out and it ended up being an RBI for us, gave us another run, a little more cushion. His speed plays in really well, and I think it helps him defensively as well. He moves really well over third base and is able to make some really tough plays look easy.

CARSON SHADDY: It's kind of funny. I think anytime you can get all the Arkansas football players all over Twitter saying how fast that kid is, that's a true testament to how fast he really is. That kid is the best athlete I've ever been around. That's scary. He's just a freshman. Seems like he's always in the right place at the right time doing the right thing.

And his speed, and like you said, it's just absolutely incredible. He's the fastest guy I've ever seen and played with for sure.

Q. Carson, just from where this team was a couple years ago, where you guys finished not making the tournament, just what's happened, what's allowed you guys to go in just two years to be on this stage now?
CARSON SHADDY: Yeah, you know, after the 2015 season when we came to Omaha, the 2016 season, I think we were a little bit on our high horse and we might not have worked as hard as we needed to and whatnot, and some of the things that didn't go back and go our way.

But just coming back after that and going through the worst has really put a lot of pressure on us to perform at our best, and I think that's what happened the last two years to try to climb back where we need to be and to get back into the NCAA Tournament.

THE MODERATOR: Thank you. Congratulations. Questions for the coaches.

Q. Coach Van Horn, your program will be competing for the national championship for the second time this week. You've coached many talented times like Dallas Keuchel who never had the opportunity that your team had this week. Could you describe your emotions knowing that you have the chance to win the national championship for your squad this year while also representing so many former players who helped build your program.
COACH VAN HORN: I haven't sat down and thought about how I feel yet. Once summer moves on, win or lose, I'll reflect a little bit. It's special to be sitting up here -- I mentioned it at the beginning -- there's a lot of former players that have gone through our program over the years that have made it to Omaha but haven't had an opportunity to play for a championship. It means a lot to them.

It means a lot to our players, obviously. But just reflecting, that would be something that I'll do down the road, just excited to be here and just want to make sure that when the first pitch is thrown tomorrow, that our guys are locked in, ready to go.

Q. Pat, Adley had a phenomenal season and here at the College World Series he's doing even better, arguably. Is there anything in particular in his game that you think has helped him reach this next level, and at what point during the season or here did you see it all click for him?
COACH CASEY: I think one of the keys was that he played football last year. And when you don't play fall baseball and you're playing football, it makes it kind of tough to develop some of the things when you come, in he's been a multi-sport athlete in high school. I think the big key for him is just getting to the point where he was just a baseball player.

Q. Dave, can you talk about managing -- not expectations -- but managing all the downtime you've had over the last couple of weeks not playing a whole lot of games? Has there been anything you've tried to do to get yourself out of the hotel, anything you've planned for the team to try to get them out and get their mind off of just sitting around?
COACH VAN HORN: You know, the end of the season was for us -- our last series was at Georgia, Thursday through Saturday. We go straight from Georgia to the SEC Tournament.

Bottom line, we were on the road for like 11 or 12 days straight. We went back, got to play at home a couple weeks in a row. We almost needed a little downtime, to be honest with you. And what we've done is practice has been shorter. Just an hour, hour and 15 minutes, working on some things, swinging the bats, taking some ground balls. Not trying to reinvent everything.

As far as hanging around the hotel, I think the guys have figured out how to stay busy. There's a lot going on. They can go eat. We trust them.

We haven't gone over the top. We're not following them around. We give them a curfew. And, again, it's like I told them, if I've got to follow you around here, then we shouldn't be here. And I don't think we would have been here.

So I think we've had some guys that like to go fishing. They're going to go again today. So whatever keeps you loose, and some of the guys I see them out walking around. I've seen a bunch of the guys at the games. We've been fortunate that we had to play three games instead of five or four or whatever it took.

And so I just think it's been good for us at this time of the year to be able to just give these guys some time off. I mean, we didn't even practice yesterday. And I think when I told them that on the bus, they were relieved.

Because if we're feeling it, then we know they're feeling it. I guess there hasn't been a special plan or a lot of team events. We have a lot of parents here that are taking up that time, which has been great.

Q. Dave, Blaine Kinsley's impact, have you all lifted here, and what have you seen with the team as far as strength, and I can see Blaine Knight has bulked up a lot?
COACH VAN HORN: For people who are seeing Blaine Knight for the first time, they're probably going are you being facetious there or are you being serious? Our strength and conditioning coach has done a tremendous job with our program. It's his first season here, Blaine Kinsley, and I feel like I've got another coach.

He's earned the players' respect. They know he's looking out for them, but he's also getting after them. We've maintained our strength throughout the season. I can't say that that's always the case.

We have guys that like to work out and lift. To answer your question, yes, we've worked out three or four times. Usually the way we've been handling it, an example, we'll work out for an hour and 15 minutes at Creighton, then we'll go into their weight room across the street.

And they all have their individual workouts and trying to maintain the strength that they have. It's a long season. So it's been a great thing having Blaine in our program this year.

Q. Through the course of the year, what kind of advanced scouting have you been able to pick up on the other, seeing games on TV, doing stuff here, what kind of analysis have you had of the other teams? And to Coach Casey, can you tell us what your pitching plans might be?
COACH CASEY: We don't do a lot of advanced scouting on teams in the other leagues because you wouldn't know. I mean, I've seen them play on TV, like Dave was saying, the luxury of so many games being televised now. It's fun and enjoyable for me, anyway, to watch other guys go through the stress of coaching a game while I'm sitting on the couch and you're sitting there, saying, that club's pretty good, look at Dave, he's got a guy at second now with two outs.

So even when you got here, I never thought about another team in the other bracket because you had to get through the bracket. So I haven't done any of that.

As far as our pitching, we're going to practice today at 1:00, let's see, 1:30, and everybody knows that we've played five games and we're going to find out who feels good. And we've got a couple different options, that's for sure.

But we're not in sequence, because we got in the loser's bracket, and therefore we can't stack it up the way we want to stack it up.

COACH VAN HORN: Obviously a couple days back, when it came down to Mississippi State and Oregon State, we know everything we need to know about Mississippi State.

So just watched them a couple of times in person, six, seven innings each game. Just kind of looking for tendencies or pretty much things I already knew. Just seeing if that was the way I was seeing it on TV. And you can look over stats and if a team strikes out a lot or if they take a lot of pitches or sac bunt certain situations, what pitches are they sitting on, you just try to do the best you can.

Sometimes you can watch it on TV and you can pick up a little bit more in certain areas maybe on the pitching part of it. Coach Johnson's done the best he can to tune into their hitters and try to figure out a way to get them out. Because the top five hitters, there's no better top five in the country.

So if you call that advanced scouting, I don't know. We all have our services that we might get all the spray charts and all of that stuff. But sometimes it's just about putting your eyes on guys and trying to figure it out.

Q. Coach Casey, you've been in this position before. It's your sixth College World Series as a head coach at Oregon State. And it's your third time to play for the national championship in the finals. From your years in the dugout, does having that previous experience in these high-profile games help your team prepare for this week?
COACH CASEY: Well, I hope so. The one thing about these players, like Adley was saying, he was in first or second grade when we played for the title a while back. So you hope that you have experience in the game and you hope that being there helps them have some comfort that may be what you're trying to guide them can get them to where they want to go.

Ultimately, I think Dave and I would say the same thing at this time of the year: You know, our regimen of preparing them to play is complete and they've got to play the game as how they play the game. Probably not going to get a whole lot better today.

So therefore I think it becomes what they've regimented themselves to do. And I hope any experience that I have can help guide them.

Q. Pat, to follow up on the question earlier about your pitching staff, having been through a year previously where you went through the loser's bracket to reach the finals, can you speak to how difficult it is to keep that group fresh and how it maybe compares to this year where, other than yesterday, your starters haven't worked a lot. And obviously Heimlich has only thrown five innings and is on four days' rest tomorrow if you used him?
COACH CASEY: The last time we did this thing was so much different because our starters gave us great starts and then it was the decision as to, hey, can you throw, you threw seven and two-thirds against Rice.

Now we haven't got one quality start out of our two best guys in four starts for them. And so therefore -- I'm being up front -- that's puzzling to me. I'm not positive how we got to that point to where we can continue to play when the freshman gives us the big start that we've had.

And so we just gotta talk to those guys today and figure -- there's people that started, Christian Chamberlain started the game before. And Luke and Fehm started a bunch. I don't know that there's one that couldn't start the game, but it comes down to those that feels like he could go five or give us five at that point in time. I think when you get to the loser's bracket and your opponent, they went in succession, you really can't concern yourself with anything other than who is the best option.

Q. Dave, mostly you on this one but also, Pat, if you want to chime in a little bit as well. Oregon State has 109 of 127 games in the last two years. Just could you just comment to the level of accomplishment that is?
COACH VAN HORN: Are you asking me? Okay. I'll start out from my perspective. I mean, it's incredible. Like I said, they play in a great conference. West Coast players, very skilled players. And to win that many ballgames, it's almost amazing to me, because I think I know how hard it is to win.

And it's not easy. And we talk about it all the time. How are they doing it? And it's not like they're in Houston where they can just run down the street and grab players. They're going all over the place and they're doing it with kids from their region, and, I mean, hats off to them.

It's been incredible to watch from the outside.

COACH CASEY: I think we ran into a good group of kids and the ball bounces your way. Last year, I think it was, we won 15, 16-run games. You've got to have the good fortune on your side and last year certainly a lot of -- like I said one-run game after one-run game.

Those guys, pretty good group of guys. Play hard, like to play the game. All the things that got both clubs here. And ultimately nobody cares how many games you win unless you win the last one. So, anyway, it's a good group of young men.

Q. Dave, you have a chance to be the fifth different SEC program to win a national championship I think in 10 years. When you play a full schedule and leave like that, what's that do to prepare you for June, what's it do to prepare you for a moment like this?
COACH VAN HORN: It definitely prepares you. We talk about it all the time. This year, this is my 16th year in the SEC. And it was the deepest league span. There were no weekends off. You have Mississippi State this close to getting to the championship series and they came in fourth or place in the Western Division.

It was just one weekend after another. And there was never a break. Kentucky had as much talent, was as good as anybody going into the conference going into the season, going into league play and it didn't go good for them.

And it makes you resilient, number one. It teaches you how to prepare for what's about to happen every weekend. And if you don't show up or if you have a bad weekend, you'll get hammered.

And that's kind of what happened to us at Mississippi State. We didn't play very good. And they were in last place at the time and they beat us three straight in less than 24 hours because we had to move Sunday's game to Saturday due to weather coming in. We limped out of there.

But it definitely prepares you for just about anything that's coming your way. And obviously we haven't seen some of these pitchers or whatever and that's really, that's the only difference because you don't see the arm sometimes but you've seen something like them.

But as far as just the game itself and the competition, it definitely gets you ready.

Q. Pat, what's been the key to the success that you guys have had hitting with two outs pretty much throughout the entire NCAA Tournament?
COACH CASEY: I don't know the answer to that specifically. I know we've done a really good job of it. I would prefer that they would start that a little sooner before we get two outs. Maybe we can score a few more runs.

But I don't know, just things got rolling, we kind of had a thing going. And we certainly -- we were handled last night after the one inning. Their arm dominated us.

So we gotta do a much better job, but we've certainly been good with two outs.

Q. Dave, seems like all the Cornhusker fans we run into here say I'm pulling for Dave Van Horn, what do you think about the response you get from them when you come back here?
COACH VAN HORN: Their response has been great. Seems like it's gotten better through time. When we came here in '04, I didn't know what to expect. I didn't know if they were still mad at me for leaving or what because it was just a couple years out. But ever since in '09 it got better. And '12 it was good and seemed like the longer we had been here the more we got to talk to some of the former fans or some of the -- I guess they're still -- they've been fans forever, but just to talk to the Husker fans.

They've been tremendous to me and my family. I've said it many a time, the five years I spent here were huge. I mean, we took that program from basically last place in the Big 12 and everybody kind of thought, hey, you're just a football school, to very respectable, and then at the end we were the best team the last couple of years.

And it was really hard to leave, to be honest with you, just because of all the success. And there was only one place I would go, and that was Arkansas.

So I'm thankful that they've been so kind.

Q. What's the sense of pride that you have that you're back here on this stage where maybe '05, '06, '07 people said that's fun, that's cute, that's flukey, but now people expect Oregon State to be here?
COACH CASEY: I think that's a tribute to our players and our program over the years. I think coaches are much more excited for their players than they are for themselves, because that's what you do every day.

It would be like being a teacher and you go -- you want to see guys move on and people move on and be successful. That's the way it is here. You know guys come to college to play in the College World Series, get an education, do those things, and ultimately if they can do that and experience that, makes you feel good.

So I have a lot of pride in the guys that I get to represent.

Q. Coach, just wanted to ask you about every time we talk with the players after the game they say how much of a family this ballclub is. And it seems like Beaver Nation is a part of that family, traveling almost 1400 miles here. Can you talk about how important it is to have those guys support your team?
COACH CASEY: I think it's really important and the great state of Oregon has embraced us, and that's been going on for a long time, the sport of baseball.

And we are extremely thankful for those guys who traveled that far, take the time, it's always tough when you lose in Omaha how people feel. But they've been here. They've been here in force, they've been strong, they've stayed with us. I think it's very important with that family atmosphere we created there and they're a big part of that.

Q. Dave, I think you first brought Arkansas here in '04 and Pat has broke through a year later. Wonder if you guys can look back: What did the first trip to Omaha do to -- did it change things? Expectations? Exposure? Maybe internally? An added drive? What did you notice that was different after coming to Omaha for the first time?
COACH VAN HORN: Well, when we got back in 2004 it was my second year at Arkansas. And they hadn't been in 15 years. So it was big for our program, and it helped -- it kicked our program -- it kick started a little bit. Helped us probably get some recruits.

It just felt like that was the year a lot of things went our way. In 2004, we were picked 11th in the SEC out of 12 teams. We won the league.

That's how crazy it was. It was just one of those years. I thank God all the time for that year, let me tell you that.

I mean, our program, when we got here in '04, it just took off. We started getting the guys, we started getting guys out of Oklahoma and Missouri and Texas. And obviously the kids out of the state of Arkansas. And we were pretty good when we were here in '09. We had Dallas Keuchel and Drew Smyly who was just starting to pitch and a couple of other Big Leaguers on that team and at that time we didn't know what type of careers they would have.

Looking back, it's like Pat said, it's so rewarding to see what your players are doing, and then 12 we were good we just couldn't hit. We could really pitch. We were one game away from getting to the championship series. We lost two tight games, one-run game and two-run game to South Carolina.

Then in '15, we just managed to get here. And then this year we felt like it was different. But when you get to Omaha for the first time in a long time with your program, you just appreciate it. And there's no doubt that it really, really jump started us.

COACH CASEY: For us, it changed everything. People may not know that the conference didn't become a whole until 1999. So baseball in the Northwest didn't exist for the rest of the world. The Pac-6, the Arizona two schools, UCLA, USC, Stanford, Cal, they didn't want to come together.

So we did in '99. That was the president's decision. And we had no opportunity -- we were 38-14 or something and had swept UCLA in nonconference in '98. Swept Arizona in nonconference, went to USC and won one of three, so we're 7-2 against the South and we don't even go to Regional because we couldn't RPI out. It didn't exist.

When we went to the World Series in '05, it changed absolutely everything. People didn't believe that baseball existed outside of certain areas of the country. If you're in the SEC, they believe baseball, every team there, is worthy of being World Series champion. And that was the same way in the 6, the 6 Pac. Up north, they'd throw us a bone every once in a while let us play them.

It changed everything. It changed the way kids came to the north. It changed our stadium, our fan base, everything for us.

Q. I'm wondering what you've seen of Arkansas, what you've seen of their pitching, the fact they're set up on normal rotation on regular rest. And Steven Kwan, he played last night, went to play defense, is he good to go?
COACH CASEY: What I've seen of Arkansas is what everybody else has seen, pretty darned good. I don't know if I've seen a more complete team pitching defense, speed, power. People think we've got power.

I think we've hit 60 home runs. I think they hit 98. Just a terrific team, well-coached, discipline, you name it. There's not any weakness they have on their team.

As far as Steven Kwan, don't know. You know, last night I probably allowed my trust in the players get to me because he wanted to get an at-bat and go into the game and he was 100 percent and it was probably against my better judgment that I allowed that to happen. And so thank God nothing was hit to him.

He said he was 100 percent last night, that's all I can tell you. He ran up the tunnel and hit before the game. So we'll see, we'll see how he does in practice. I sure hope he's healthy. I sure hope he can play. He's a heck of a player. He's a big part of our club. And we'd certainly like to have him in the lineup.


COACH VAN HORN: We're joined by Coach Van Horn and student-athletes Luke Bonfield, Blaine Knight and Heston Kjerstad. Coach, an opening statement.

COACH VAN HORN: We did a good job of swinging the bats early. I thought Kingham did a really nice job of getting out of some jams. We just couldn't get, really, that big hit, you know? Heston got one in the first, which you look up, we've got six hits and one run and start to get a little nervous as a coach because you feel like you're leaving some opportunities out there.

Blaine just kept getting them out. And I think he would tell you that he didn't have his best stuff. But he really competed hard. And he gave us what he had. Hot out there.

And like I told the team after the game, the big swing of the day was Luke Bonfield. We went from down 2-1 to up 3-2 and it happened with two outs. That was the swing we were looking for to get us going a little bit. And then obviously we set up the big inning, had a couple of runs in, had a rain delay, and came out and really just did a nice job scoring some runs there in the sixth inning that gave us an opportunity to relax a little bit.

So proud of the guys. They hung in there. They stayed focused for five or six hours.

THE MODERATOR: Questions?

Q. Luke, can you talk us through the at-bat that gave you guys the lead? And also what was it like going through the rain delay and having that big inning in the middle of that?
LUKE BONFIELD: Yeah, I mean, he started me off -- all day long they were kind of trying to throw me in, so he started me off like a sinker in, swung over the top of it.

Then he went slider away. Laid off that. Then he left a sinker up and I put a good swing on it and wasn't quite sure it's going out. I knew I hit it well, but you never know with this stadium and with the wind and everything.

And as far as it goes, rain delay-wise, the guys did a really good job of just staying loose, not trying to, I guess, sometimes with rain delays you can, like, get a little lethargic after them. And we kind of stayed loose, didn't eat a ton, and took some swings in the cages down there and came out. And we put up, I think, like, eight on the board after the rain delay. So it was awesome.

Q. Blaine, can you speak to what you had today? And also you got 13 wins, which ties a school record. Your thoughts about doing that?
BLAINE KNIGHT: Yeah, stuff-wise, it was okay. Fastball command was average for me. I had the big breaker working a little bit. Slider was working and change-up a little bit as well. And did enough to keep them off the board and enough to keep them off the board enough for us to come back and get a win.

And the 13-0 thing, I just chalk it up as another win for the team. And I'm just going to do what I can the next outing to get another win for this team and keep going.

Q. Did you know it tied a school record?
BLAINE KNIGHT: Yes, somebody told me in the dugout. But I guess that's cool and all, but I'm just more about getting this team where we need to be.

Q. Luke or Heston, obviously the eight runs was big in the sixth. But how much momentum did that sequence in the fifth inning give you, with Heston, you beating out that play at first, and, Luke, you hitting that one out?
LUKE BONFIELD: I think Heston hustling down the line was huge for us. I mean, if he doesn't beat that ball out, the inning's over and I never get the opportunity to put us ahead.

That just shows you what type of ball player he is. He's always running hard down the line. He's a great kid. And it was something that maybe the average person didn't see, but definitely us as his teammates really appreciate.

HESTON KJERSTAD: Luke swinging the bat put us ahead in the game and gave us a lot of momentum going forward. And after we took that lead we never looked back from there.

Q. Heston, the play at first, when you beat the throw out and came back and hit the bag with their first baseman McKenzie, what kind of happened there? Can you describe it?
HESTON KJERSTAD: I'd ran past, ran through the bag trying to beat out a double play. And then they'd overthrown it. I turned around and they were fielding it. And they thought I was committing to second base, which I hadn't. But I didn't want the call to be left up to that. So I made sure I hustled back into first, so no matter what they didn't have to go back and look at it.

Going into first, I was going full speed and he was on the backside of the bag. And I tried to brace myself going into first on him, and then he ended falling over.

Q. Luke and Heston, seems like this offense has kind of a history of putting up a lot of crooked numbers in big innings like that. What do you think it is about the character of this team that makes you guys so likely to do that? And can you feel it coming, can you feel that momentum building and does it kind of feel like it's just racing downhill at that point?
LUKE BONFIELD: Yeah, you know, we have such a balanced lineup. And it's a very -- we all know what we're doing at the plate. We all have a certain approach.

And once Casey Martin hit that lead-off hit after the rain delay, everything just kind of snowballed on them, and we got a ton more momentum. We just never let up on the gas. So it was good for our offense.

HESTON KJERSTAD: Luke hit the nail on the head right there. It's a deep lineup, 1 through 9, and nobody is an easy out. And everyone's always fighting every at-bat and we're not giving away pitches.

Q. Blaine, obviously you deciding to come back this year, wrote the letter about wanting to get to Omaha. Now you finally got to Omaha, you got out there on the mound. What was the feeling like? Was it everything you thought it would be? What was the atmosphere like? What was going through your mind?
BLAINE KNIGHT: It's everything that I thought it would be everything that Shaddy and Luke had told me before, what it's like and the atmosphere. A lot of fun. Tried to enjoy it as much as I can, but I still have a job to do. It was a blast, and I look forward to doing it again.

Q. Luke, you played here as a freshman, so you probably have a little bit of an appreciation for this. Wonder if you can touch on what your thoughts were about the games that Kjerstad and Martin had in their first time in Omaha?
LUKE BONFIELD: It's special. That's all you can say. The way they go about themselves is just special. They don't act like freshmen once they get on the field. They're very respectful off the field to the upperclassmen which you don't really see a lot with guys that are that good as freshmen, they're never scared. It's something I've never seen here. And it's pretty cool.

Q. Luke, were you surprised after the rain delay they brought in Chase Shugart, their number two pitcher, concerning the circumstances?
LUKE BONFIELD: No, that guy has really good stuff, runs the fastball up to 95 with a lot of sink. They were trying to stop the bleeding right there, keep the game at, I think it was a 5-2 ball game at that point. They felt if they could keep our offense at bay with that guy, they could get back in the ball game.

THE MODERATOR: Thank you. Questions for Coach.

Q. On the freshmen, Kjerstad and Martin, could you touch on what they did for you offensively; and Martin, three of the last four games, he's made a pretty incredible play for you at third base. What have you thought about plays defensively at that position?
COACH VAN HORN: Start with Heston, came up with a big hit for us there in the first. He was down in the count 1-2. Fastball, down and away, really, really good pitch. Stayed through it, drove in the first run, gave us a chance to catch our breath a little bit.

And just Heston all day. He was just a force at the plate. Tough out. Fouled off a lot of pitches, even his last at-bat. He struck out but I think he saw seven or eight pitches at a minimum.

Casey didn't get off to a good start offensively. First couple of at-bats were frustrating for him. But he made that nice play, got up and threw the ball real accurate, threw it across the grass a little bit. But it was a perfect throw. And who knows, but it might have saved a really big inning there. He's been playing outstanding defense. Making all kinds of plays.

And he felt bad about the bunt, didn't get it out of his glove on the first try and allowed the runner to beat that out. And he kind of made up for it with his bat a little bit later and just being Casey. He's a good player.

Q. Obviously Texas is a team that feeds off Kody Clemens and when he's going, the offense is really going well. When he's not, like it was tonight, they're just not. What did you think about the way your pitchers handled Kody?
COACH VAN HORN: I thought they did a really good job with him. He's been on fire obviously. And hitting a long ball, doing everything.

And the at-bat he got the hit, he was ahead in the count, either 2-1 or 3-1, pitch was kind of away, up in the zone a little bit, smoked it over the second baseman's head.

And the other at-bats, got him to fly out a little bit, struck out on a couple of changeups and new pitcher, hadn't seen him. And I think that's one reason why we had some success. I think he might have seen three different pitchers.

Great hitter. We've talked about it all week, how we were going to handle it if the game was on the line. And Zubia is pretty good too. He's strong now. Just missed hitting it out oppo on a 1-2 count against the wind.

Feel good about the way that Blaine kept them off balance. And then Loseke came in there; and once he kind of got it going a little bit, we had the rain hit. And he stayed loose, played catch about every 15 minutes in the tunnel down there and just kind of -- we thought, okay, we're going to let you go back out. And he actually threw really well. And then he looked like all of a sudden he lost it and went and got him and Ramage came in and did a nice job getting that strikeout. Not bad.

Q. Casey was just saying that you looked at him after the delay and just said: It starts with you. Can you guys take us through what was going through your mind, the opportunity you guys had with that at-bat and how important that at-bat was with the way the inning played out?
COACH VAN HORN: My thinking was I think at that time we already scored a couple. We had a three-run lead. Worst case for us I wanted two of those. I wanted to get at least two more runs there.

And just getting Shugart, they basically told us, just everybody, how important this game is, to go out and get one of your top pitchers -- we were thinking they would probably start the next ball game -- to try to keep it at three runs.

Told Casey, it's one of their guys. And he's going to attack you. He got just enough of that high pitch to try to get in on him and he dropped it in left field.

And obviously we had a left-hander coming up to face the righty. And he got down two strikes and he got the ball, the ball was elevated a little bit, hit a long hard drive into left center.

I just wanted Casey to be aggressive. With bases loaded, you don't want to get down to the count to the middle of the order type hitter.

Q. Could you speak to Blaine Knight, what he's meant to the team, now he's got 13 wins on the season that ties a school record?
COACH VAN HORN: Seems like every time he goes out there, I say it every time, he gives us a chance to win. We usually play pretty good behind him.

Whether he's pitching with his best stuff or average stuff for Blaine Knight, and today was more of average stuff for him. And they took some good swings at him, but he had just enough to get him out. Hit a couple of balls to the track.

He worked his way out of a jam or two and just didn't give up that big inning. And he's meant a lot to the team obviously. You got to have somebody that you can depend on every weekend at this level and especially in our league.

And he's a guy that really, when I look back on it, every weekend he gave us a lot of innings and gave us a chance to get in the ball game a little bit. And he had a couple three no-decisions. And obviously I wouldn't be sitting here right now if it wasn't for Blaine Knight.

Q. You mentioned going with Chase Shugart. The appearance of the game, was it pretty obvious. Would you have been able to gamble like that and go with two of your top pitchers in a game like this in Game 1?
COACH VAN HORN: It's hard to second-guess anybody trying to win their first game. Because if you don't win the first game, who will you get? You get Florida or Texas Tech and someone is going home.

So I don't blame David at all. But I guess to answer that question, we talked about it, if Blaine got in trouble early and it was tight, we talked we could go with Isaiah Campbell or go with Murphy. These are guys that start for us because that's how important it is. But I would say I would definitely consider doing it.

Q. Dave, when you have a rain delay that long, having the lead was obviously nice when you're in that situation, but is there anything in particular you try to do? Do you try to have them kind of gear down for a little while until you kind of know it's time to step back up? How do you deal with that?
COACH VAN HORN: Once we realized it was going to be at least an hour and a half, just talking with all the officials out there, we came up into the locker room and they're air conditioned, they're laying around, goofing around. Eating some snacks and that kind of stuff.

And I just don't want them eating too much. And I think they were kind of -- I kind of laughed because we had a doubleheader early, early in the year, and we won the first game and somebody ordered us a smorgasbord in there and I didn't like it and we got whipped in Game 2.

The running joke after that was you're going to get a banana and a Snickers. (Laughter) When I walked in, that tray full of food. You're not eating it. Knight, you can have some; you're out of the game. Coaching staff can have it. I didn't have any. They said, no, we get Snickers and bananas.

You're right. They get it. Like Luke said, we didn't want to be sluggish. But it was nice for them to bring up the food, cheese and crackers and bread and stuff. Slowly disappeared a little bit.

THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Arkansas coach Dave Van Horn, student-athletes Luke Bonfield, Carson Shaddy, and Grant Koch. Dave, give us an overview.

COACH VAN HORN: Well, I thought that it was a pretty good ballgame, obviously, for many innings there. And I felt like Murphy got off to a slow start, hitting a lot of balls hard, but he settled in. We wanted him to pitch up in the zone a little bit to a couple of guys. Got some fly balls, deep fly balls, that's what we were looking for a little bit.

He gave us four-plus innings. And then Kole Ramage came in and did a tremendous job getting us out of the bases-loaded jam, gave up one run. We lived on the edge a lot tonight obviously. Finally got us there with two outs. It was tough a play down the right field line, kind of that no-man's-land ball, stand's coming up, got a second shot and fouled off a couple of pitches and tried to get it inside and the ball ran back out over the plate. Really nice piece of hitting. And they tied it up obviously. And the big two-run homer.

But it was a tough loss. What do you do? You got a chance to play for a national championship going down the last day. Just gotta fight through it.

THE MODERATOR: Questions.

Q. Carson, the foul ball play, can you talk us through what you saw on that and y'all's reaction to what you have to face now?
CARSON SHADDY: You know, it's a tough play. I was running, and didn't hear anybody call it. So I just kept running trying to make the play and overran it. It's a tough break. Just have to get back out tomorrow and we're really confident in Isaiah and we're ready to go.

Q. Such a hard-fought series, nip and tuck the whole way, one game left to go. How do you shake that off and go into Game 3?
CARSON SHADDY: Yeah, just come out and play the game that we've been playing. We still haven't put together our best day with the bats. And I think that's coming.

We're very confident in Isaiah and his abilities and we're really confident as a team, and I think it's going to be a good day for us tomorrow.

GRANT KOCH: Yeah, I think just like he said, we're all ready to play. I think for a lot of us, a lot of us are local and some of the guys that aren't, but it's one more day for us to be a Razorback, and that's all you can ask.

One or two teams left standing in the last day of the College World Series. You can't ask for much more. We're still standing, alive and ready to go for sure.

LUKE BONFIELD: What both of them said, we get one last opportunity to put on the uniform. No matter what, win or lose, and just go to battle with my brothers out there.

So I think it's going to be a hard-fought battle tomorrow.

Q. Grant, could you talk about what you might expect out of Isaiah tomorrow and what he's done for you guys lately?
GRANT KOCH: Yeah, we're expecting the same stuff he's had for a little while now. And we have all the confidence in the world in him. He's got four pitches that, you know, at times will command all of them. And that's what we expect tomorrow.

He's going to battle out there for us. He's been really, really good of late. And he's been really good in big-time situations, when we need him. And that's exactly what's going to happen.

Yeah, and, you know, I think that's what we all expect, and that's what we're going to get. So we have all the confidence in the world, like Carson said, and our defense is going to be there to back him up.

Q. Carson, after your big hit in the two-run inning, which included a couple of balls that barely fell into the grass, you had Casey racing to the plate, a couple of pretty big escapes by your pitchers on the mound. Did you guys feel even going into the ninth that you were kind of destined to get it done in this game?
CARSON SHADDY: Yeah, I think that's what both teams are trying -- both teams think they need to win and think they're going to win. And that's really the only answer I can give you. We got that hit and then it went up and held them for three innings and looked like it was right there for us. And some tough breaks happened.

THE MODERATOR: Thank you. Questions for Coach.

Q. The bullpen's been so good for you here. What did you see from those guys? And Cronin, could you use him tomorrow? Who would be available tomorrow?
COACH VAN HORN: I don't know. It's getting awful thin. And we're just going to -- we need a good start, obviously. Reindl didn't give us anything tonight, so he can go again. Scroggins can give us an inning or two. As far as Cronin and Loseke, that's maybe a hitter with Cronin, maybe with an inning with Loseke. We'll see, maybe nothing. It will be up to those guys when we see how they feel tomorrow.

And Ramage could go again a little bit. I thought he was effective tonight. But, you know, just off the top of my head those are a few of the guys.

Q. What do you expect out of your team tomorrow? You've got a good feel for the pulse of the team. What do you think is going to happen?
COACH VAN HORN: They've been tough all year. We've had some tough losses that some games that got away from us. And we just didn't play well.

So I think they're going to come out, give us a great effort. We've got to swing the bats a lot better. We haven't swung the bats good for two days. And we've been relying on pitching and they gave us another great effort today, the pitchers, and we just didn't score enough runs.

Q. Dave, what is your message to the team after the game tonight, just as far as overcoming a gut punch like that?
COACH VAN HORN: It was quick. It was just, hey, we get to play one more game. And what more could you ask for, you know? You gotta move on. You can't take it back, you know? It's over.

So get your head up and start getting your mind right because it's going to be tomorrow before you know it. And we need to come out here and give ourselves a chance.

Q. Dave, it happened pretty fast there from Grenier's hit to tie it and Larnach's homer. Was there anything you could do to slow it down? What was the mood in the dugout after the hit to tie it, and did you maybe feel something else coming?
COACH VAN HORN: Yeah, after the hit to tie it, we had a left on left. We weren't going to make a move there. He just probably ran out of gas. And the runner's hit, if you look back at the video, we had thrown a couple of pitches up and out and he fouled a couple off.

And he was going to try to bust him in. And if you look, your catcher set up in, has to go back right down the middle base hit to left. If he gets it in, who knows. But that's the way it works. I don't think there was really anything else we could do.

We pretty much put it in Cronin's hand there. Left on left, to get us in the dugout with a tie game and see if we can score a run and win it.

The mood in the dugout, yeah, there was disappointment. But I made a comment earlier in the game: Let's just get -- we get the last at-bats, let's tie it. Here we are. We would have taken it.

The way the game went, it didn't surprise me they would tie it. Really good at-bat by the lead-off man in the top of the ninth, fouled off a bunch of pitches and finally got walked.

And every time you walk somebody, walk comes back and gets you.

Q. Overall how would you sum up your All-Star experience?
GIANCARLO STANTON: It was a lot of fun. A lot of cool things, a lot of excitement around Miami. A lot of build-up to it.

So it was fun. It was fun getting everything going. Being around all these guys. I'm going to take these two days and hopefully don't see anyone, don't do a dang thing.

Q. Giancarlo, we talked to a lot of local fans, they loved the energy of this building. It's not the way it always is. What was it like with all those crazy fans screening loud?
GIANCARLO STANTON: A lot like WBC. Just a lot of excitement. A lot of good energy, and fun times. Everyone is enjoying themselves. That's how it should be.

Q. You hit 16 in the Derby. Obviously came up one short. I know you were struggling with energy maybe a little bit. After the time-out did you ever get into that kind of rhythm you had hoped for?
GIANCARLO STANTON: After the time-out I did, got a pretty good rhythm. But I still had fun. Doesn't matter. Like I said originally, if I don't get out of the first, I'm still going to have fun. If I look back dwelling on it, what's the point of being an All-Star if you're going to be mad about things? Just have fun.

Q. Some people said that in the Derby's current format, what if they changed it to where you did a top eight and maybe the top four advances on home run total with a time format, would you like to see something like that?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Yeah, that would be pretty cool, seeing how you never know what your match-up is going to be like. And, yeah, that would be cool to talk about.

Q. Pitbull announced on Twitter that he's joining a bid to try to buy the Marlins. What would you think of him being a part owner of the Marlins?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Mr. 305. Right? Whatever happens, man. You hear everything around here. Whatever happens.

Q. Speaking of fun, when Bour took his time-out, you came up with the donuts, where did you come up with that idea? Spontaneous?
GIANCARLO STANTON: He had some "Bour's Donuts" shirts made a couple of weeks ago. All that build-up. I was like, we have to do the Derby, we have to figure out what to do in between, and I thought of that.

Q. Are you proud of him the way he performed?
GIANCARLO STANTON: I'm really proud of him. I told him that. I told him make sure, like I said no matter what, have fun and enjoy the moment. He's not going to get another chance like this, at home with that energy. He could be in another Derby, but with the crowd behind him like that, he probably won't get another chance.

Q. From getting off the plane from San Francisco to now, obviously it's been a hectic two days, but a fun two days. What is something you'll take from this experience, not just being an All-Star again but representing this city and this team?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Just owning it, owning everything that comes with it. And being in your city. And just be proud, be proud of the work I put in. Me and Ozo (Ozuna) talked about it. We have long grueling days, a grueling schedules sometimes. So these are times where you sit back and be thankful for the work we put in.

Q. How do you compare this All-Star experience being at home compared to your past All-Star experience?
GIANCARLO STANTON: A lot more buzz. A lot more people rooting for me, which is cool. So this one was really cool, and special.

Q. I know this morning you were at the Boys & Girls club event this morning and then tonight Stand Up To Cancer moment. I wanted to ask you your thoughts about what's happened off the field and helping out in the community and this specific Stand Up To Cancer event?
GIANCARLO STANTON: Well, that's our job. That's our duty. Especially when the spotlight is on brightest, which is right now. So you have to get out there and help out the community, help out charities and push it during a time like this where there's so much buzz in the media around it to get awareness out. So that's good that I was able to do that.

THE MODERATOR: Thanks for your time. Thanks for being a great ambassador for the event.

JANE FORBES CLARK: I would like to again invite the commissioner to join me for our next presentation, and if you would turn your attention to our video monitor for a short presentation about our third 2017 inductee, Bud Selig.
(Video shown.)
As chairman of the National Baseball Hall of Fame, it is my honor, Bud, to welcome you to the Hall of Fame family and to ask Commissioner Manfred to read the inscription on your plaque.
ROB MANFRED: Allan Huber Selig, Bud. Commissioner from 1992 to 2015, the first seven years in acting capacity before formally named by unanimous vote among all 30 owners in 1998. Presided over an era of vast change to the game on the field while extending its breadth and depth off of it. Fostered an unprecedented stretch of labor peace, introduced three-division play, and expanded the postseason. Under his leadership, umpiring was centralized and replay review was established. Celebrated the national pastime's pioneering diversity by universally retiring Jackie Robinson's number, 42. Bridge builder and devoted fan who returned baseball to Milwaukee as Brewers' owner before serving as second longest tenured commissioner.
JANE FORBES CLARK: Ladies and gentlemen, Bud Selig.
BUD SELIG: Thank you, Jane, Jeff.
I also want to take this opportunity to thank Whitney and Jon and everybody else in the Hall of Fame staff. You have been remarkable.
The Hall of Fame is the soul of baseball and reaffirms its beauty and timelessness. Thanks to your vision, your leadership, and your ability to tell our stories in exhibits and words. The Hall of Fame is a baseball treasure.
Congratulations to you, Tim, Pudge, and Jeff. You've earned your place amongst the legends of the game, and I'm proud to be part of your class and forever connected with you. And congratulations to my friend John Schuerholz. We've known each other for a half a century, and there's no one I or anyone in baseball hold in higher esteem. As countless people have said in the past couple months, you've set the standard we all strive to achieve. From a personal standpoint, I will be forever indebted to you for all the assignments you accepted over the years. You have poured your heart into them, your integrity, and your intelligence have enriched baseball for these past 50 years.
To Commissioner Rob Manfred, my friend, my associate, for these past 27 years, I thank you. I thank you for your wise counsel and for the great work that you did to help baseball reach the heights it enjoys today. As commissioner these past two and a half years, your vision to grow the game, engage more young people, extend the reach of our sport around the world will lead our great game to new heights.
And finally, to these Hall of Famers, I am honored to be in your presence. On your shoulders, this game became part of the fabric of our country, and we are forever indebted to you.
For so many years, I sat right behind where I stand now and watched as each new member would stand here and deliver remarks with the kind of emotion that comes with great happiness and fulfillment. Now as I stand here at this moment, I am humbled. I am deeply honored to receive baseball's highest honor.
I stand here amongst many friends, including the great Henry Aaron, my friend of 59 years, and I must say, one of the best, most decent and dignified people that I have ever known. I have become friends with Henry Aaron and other members of the Milwaukee Braves in the late 1950s. I remember once when the team was leaving on a road trip, first baseman Frank Torre asked if I'd keep an eye on his little brother while he was gone. Yes, that's when I met Joe Torre. We have been friends ever since. Joe, you turned out okay, and he'd be proud.
To see my guys here, Robin Yount, Rollie Fingers, and of course Paul Molitor, who would be here but is managing the Twins, brings back countless memories.
Robin, Rollie and Molly represented the Brewers in so many ways, Robin of course spending his whole career with the Brewers. You three were more than just players to me and the city of Milwaukee and the state of Wisconsin. You are forever etched in the minds of Brewer fans, and you must say you are forever etched in the journey of my life.
In many ways, baseball has been my life. I got into baseball 53 years ago for the simplest reason of all: I wanted to bring Major League Baseball back to my hometown. I made it my mission, my quest, and I devoted five long years in a relentless effort. We would try and we would fail. We would try and we would fail. And we would try and we would fail. But we never quit.
And that day when the Brewers arrived, March 31, 1970, will forever be one of the proudest days of my life. I was able to do something I loved every day with great passion. I loved the baseball life. I loved living and dying with each game. I loved watching players come in as nervous rookies and grow and mature to become winners in all sorts of ways and to take their place on this stage.
I loved getting to know everybody, the field managers, ticket managers, players, scouts, sports writers, and of course the fans. And by the way, I love that the Brewers flourish today under the great care of Mark Attanasio. The Brewers and their fans in Milwaukee and throughout the state of Wisconsin are in very, very good hands.
I not only learned every aspect of the operation of a club, I learned about the myriad issues confronting the game. In September of 1992, after 23 years of running the Brewers, I was asked to become chairman of Major League Baseball's Executive Council, in effect, to be the interim or acting commissioner, yet I saw it only as a temporary assignment I was sure would last only two to four months.
Baseball's issues in the '70s, '80s and early '90s were troubling. We were a game divided. Everywhere you turned there was rancor and adversity. Big markets versus small markets, American League owners versus National League owners, worst of all, owners versus players. We were a game truly stuck in neutral.
Success came from working together. The unprecedented success we've achieved over these past 25 years has come from ending the divide, from building harmony, from working as one for the good of the game. The role of the commissioner has dramatically changed from its early days. You have to build consensus. You have to persuade people to do what is good for the game.
Baseball is an institution that has been in our culture like few others. Because of this fact, baseball has been historically resistant to change. We needed a new economic system. Baseball's economics had not changed since the 1930s, but the forces operating within this system had been transformed. The perpetual reserve rule was replaced by arbitration and later free agency. The advent of cable injected new revenue into the game and increased disparity. The economic system from the 1930s could not handle these changes, and it became an anachronism. We needed to restore hope and faith to fans of every team, not just the ones who played in the larger cities.
We went through a terribly painful period to institute a new economic system. The 1994 strike was the most painful experience of my life. I began to experience what Harry Truman meant when he said, "The buck stops here." I experienced that during the strike. I experienced it again later when it became apparent that the players' use of performance enhancing substances was undermining the integrity of the game. I can tell you that having the buck stop at your desk is not necessarily a good feeling, but it is a responsibility that comes with positions of leadership.
Ultimately, we did bring about economic reformation, and it has benefitted the players, the clubs, and the fans. Working together, we created substantial revenue sharing amongst the clubs, taxes designed to reduce payroll disparity, and debt rules designed to promote financial stability. As a result, every single Major League team has played October baseball since 2001, and hope and faith have been restored.
We desperately needed a drug testing program, and we had to work together to get it done. While the process was more difficult and time-consuming than I would have liked. In the end, baseball and the Players Association developed a program that is the gold standard for sports and business alike. We needed labor peace, and we have made agreements that ensure at least 27 years of labor peace through 2021. I don't know that any of us could have foreseen such harmony after the decades of anger and discord that preceded these.
I cannot leave the topic of labor without saying a word about a special individual: Michael Weiner. Michael was a man of principle, a man of intellect, and a man of vision. The progress that we made in labor would not have been possible without him, and his death was certainly way too premature.
I've long been inspired by the words of George Bernard Shaw who wrote, "You see things and you say why, but I dream things that never were and I say why not." And by working together, working in harmony we were able to grow the game with more innovations than we ever had.
We are at the forefront of a technological revolution creating Major League Baseball Advanced Media, or BAM for short. It's one of the greatest stories in American business. It has dramatically improved the way our fans all over the world can enjoy baseball.
These have been wonderful innovations for our fans. They would not have been possible without the leadership of Bob Bowman at BAM, and Tony Petitti at the MLB Network, nor could any of these accomplishments have taken place without the brilliant work, ideas and trust of people in our office like Pat Countney, Dan Halem, Bob Starkey, and all of the dedicated people in the offices of Major League Baseball.
I owe so much to so many friends, many of whom are here today, many owners and executives that have made great contributions to so many areas of our game and who are responsible for the success that we have had.
I wish I could name you all, but you know how much your presence here today means to me. I want to thank some people who are no longer with us: The late Detroit Tiger owner John Fetzer was a mentor. He taught me early on that if you do what's in the best interest of the game, no matter how painful, no matter how unpopular at the time, all related parties will benefit, and the game will, as well. It has been a key to our game's success.
I also dearly loved Carl Pohlad, owner of the Minnesota Twins. And yes, as I stand here today, I miss George Steinbrenner. We never agreed on anything in 40 years, but we remain great friends through the entire time, and I must say, he was incredibly cooperative during my tenure as commissioner.
I also miss one of the dearest friends I ever had in baseball, the late Bart Giamatti. He had so much wisdom and passion for the game. He so often said that baseball is a metaphor for life, and that is true. It is also true that baseball is a social institution with social responsibility, and it is in that area where I am most proud of the role baseball has played.
The beginning of World War II, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt urged Commissioner Mountain Landis to keep playing baseball. He said Americans would be working harder and longer than ever before, and that baseball would provide respite from the daily news of war.
In that same way I'm proud of the role baseball played in our nation's recovery from the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Our players did magnificent work in assisting recovery efforts and providing the families of victims with whatever measure of comfort they could.
We did something beautifully American: We played baseball. We steered the conversation at least for a couple hours a day to games, pennant races, and an unforgettable World Series with our nation's leader, the President of the United States, standing proudly and courageously on the mound in Yankee Stadium.
The World Series was a great American spectacle that had as much positive sociological influence as anything I've seen in my lifetime. Baseball in its small way helped this country heal. 2001 was a reaffirmation that baseball was a social institution with social responsibility. The social responsibility is why we now honor Jackie Robinson every April 15, why we retired his jersey No. 42 in perpetuity, his breaking of baseball's color line did not change the sport, it changed our country.
April 15, 1947, remains the single most important day in baseball history.
Jackie will live in our hearts forever, and Rachel and Sharon and David Robinson have carried Jackie's torch for the last half century. Their contributions to the Jackie Robinson foundation have opened doors for hundreds of young people to attend college, as you heard yesterday from Rachel.
In an effort to continue Jackie's legacy, baseball has created programs like a diverse business partners' program, which has funneled tens of millions of dollars to minority and women-owned businesses. We've embraced the responsibility of providing playing opportunities to diverse populations in under served areas through reviving baseball in the inner cities and MLB Academies that we continue to open around the country.
The MLB Academies are a special point of pride. They not only provide great baseball instruction, but they also have tutoring and mentorship programs and making sure young people understand there are many careers in baseball. We prepare them for front office positions, broadcasting jobs, opportunities in every area, from scouting to groundbreaking.
We created the Selig Rule to diversify our game on the field and in the front office, and I was proud when other sports followed. I wanted to thank also Frank Robinson for the key role he has played in this and many other areas. You did remarkable work.
It is essential that everyone in our country and everyone in the world have the opportunity to discover the joys of baseball. Our sociological impact has transcended our sport. We partnered with the entertainment industry foundation to create Stand Up to Cancer. We created our Welcome Back Veterans program, and we have enjoyed a great relationship with Habitat For Humanity and many other philanthropies. The impact of baseball on our society from Jackie Robinson to the Major Leagues who come from no less than 16 other countries today has been a remarkable absolute achievement, and we are very, very proud of that.
Today I am enjoying a new chapter in my life. I've always dreamed of being a history professor, and after this long and wonderful detour in baseball, my dreams have come true. I now teach the history of baseball in American society since World War II, yet I never dreamed that I would play such a role in the history that I teach. I teach at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, my alma mater, as well as Marquette Law School and Arizona State University. The students are smart, wonderful, curious, and infuse me with energy. And then at night I still find myself in front of a television set watching every baseball game I can. It really has been a remarkable journey.
One day a few years ago, Henry Aaron and I were walking back to our hotel in Washington, D.C., and he said to me, who could have imagined when we met back in 1958 that one day I'd break Babe Ruth's record and you'd be the commissioner of baseball. Yes, this really is an overwhelming day in every way.
I will be forever grateful to my wife Sue for joining me on this journey for the past 40 years. She has been an extraordinary partner and helpful in every way. And to my daughters Sari, Wendy and Lisa, along with those five granddaughters, and my new great grandson, a constant source of love and joy.
I was blessed to have extraordinary parents. It was my mother Marie who nurtured my love of baseball, a passionate fan, she took me to games in Milwaukee, Chicago, New York and Boston. It was a great way to grow up.
My father Benjamin loved baseball, as well. He taught me so much about business, about values, and about always trying to do the right thing. If they were here today, I know they'd be proud of this journey.
As a kid, I read the newspapers, studied box scores, memorized statistics, dreamed the dreams that little boys dream, and on my last night as commissioner, I gave a speech at the New York Baseball Writers dinner, and I said, just really off the top of my head at the end, "What you've seen here today are a little boy's dreams that came true." Thank you for this magnificent honor.


JANE FORBES CLARK: I would like to invite Commissioner Manfred to join me for our second presentation.
(Video shown.)
Jeff, please join us. It is my honor as chairman of the National Baseball Hall of Fame to welcome you to our Hall of Fame family.
Commissioner, if you would read the inscription on Jeff's plaque.
ROB MANFRED: Jeffrey Robert Bagwell, Houston, NL, 1991-2005, combined a powerful batting stroke with a discerning eye to hit .297, score 1,517 runs, and drive in 1,529 over 15 seasons, all in Houston.
A prolific run producer, posted nine seasons with 100 or more runs scored, leading the NL three times. From a wide stance, topped the 30-home run mark nine times, and finished with 449 moon shots overall. Drew more than 100 walks in seven consecutive years, a record streak in the National League.
Durable, agile first baseman, played in 160 or more games six times, stole 202 bases, most by a first baseman after 1920.
A four-time All-Star, named 1991 NL Rookie of the Year, and captured the NL MVP in 1994 unanimously.
JANE FORBES CLARK: Ladies and gentlemen, Jeff Bagwell.
JEFF BAGWELL: Thank you. Thank you so much. Y'all from Houston, you know I don't like all this attention.
This is actually a really unbelievable day. I'm so humbled to be here, to be surrounded by some of the greats that ever played this game. The guys you see on TV, guys you read about and all that, and I'm standing up here and kind of sitting in the background just watching and just trying to figure out what's really going on.
You know, I want to first thank the baseball writers for getting me in here. I truly, truly appreciate it. You guys have a tough job and do a great job of it.
I thank the Hall of Fame and I thank Jane, Jeff, Jon, Whitney, and the entire Hall of Fame staff. Just an unbelievable job up here what you guys do, every single thing you guys have covered made my family, my friends feel welcome. I can't thank you enough for all of that.
We congratulate John, Bud, Rock and Pudge. So many things you've done in baseball, whether it be executive side or playing. Getting to know you guys here, as great as you were in your fields, you're even better people, and I am truly honored to go into this class with you guys. This really has been special, and you thank you for that.
As I said before, it's an honor to be with all these Hall of Famers, to stand up here and try and talk my story, which I'd much rather be sitting in some of these rooms and listening to stories that they tell. But you know, this is all part of it, and I love it, and I'm humbled and I'm grateful.
Just to share this, my family means so much to me, and to have my brothers, my cousins, my nieces, to be here with me is really, really special to me.
My family is just -- I can't tell you how much they mean to me as far as -- we have baseball life, which I played for 15 years, obviously put a lot more time to it than that, but there's so much more that goes on in life, and for my family and my children, with Lauren, Maxwell, Rachel, Blake and Bryce, I think the pleasures of being a father, getting to see every single child be different, always a challenge every day, and always fun. You make my life so happy to watch you grow as people.
To my mother, mom, you're just absolutely just the most amazing woman in the entire world. You know, as a kid, when you get in trouble, you always go to your mom, you never go to your dad. That's how you're going to get away with stuff, at least for a while. You've been a staple in my life, a pillar for me through all my success and through some of my failures, too. I can't tell you how much I love you and what you mean to me.
My father, Bob, you know, it's amazing, I would imagine a lot of guys up here talk about their fathers because there's something about a dad for a son who plays baseball. You brought me to love this game of baseball, to go out and every single day for us to try and get better. You used to say that you gave me your right arm throwing to me batting practice all the time, and you did. But more importantly, you taught me how to be a man, showed me respect, how to have respect, to walk through this life as a man. That's something that I'm very proud of, and I try and use that with my kids, too. You are just a wonderful father, and I'm so happy that you're here for this day for me. I know it means a lot to you, and we're in this together, my friend.
To my beautiful wife, words cannot explain how much you have meant to me. Like I said, as wonderful as things are up here, there's good times and bad times, and I know -- and everybody that knows me, that I would not be standing here without you and your love and your support. You have taken me through so many different journeys, and to finally end up here, for both of us to sit here and just kind of look and go, is this really happening, because there were some times that we didn't even know. But you have been a rock for me, and I can't tell you how much you appreciate everything that you do for me every single day. So thank you, my love.
You know, they talk about the Hall of Fame is just a dream come true. I mean, I can't honestly say that. I mean, who's a young kid that dreams about being in the Hall of Fame? Maybe somebody does. For a kid that was a Red Sox fan my entire life, I dreamed of playing for the Red Sox. You know, chances probably weren't pretty good at that. I was never that great. But something my father instilled in me when I was a kid is to never quit. Don't quit at anything you ever try.
You know, I've pretty much stuck to that. There were certain situations that I wish I had quit a couple of jobs that I had, dishwasher at Friendly's in Cape Cod. I should have quit that. Sometimes I probably should have quit baseball, too. But deep inside of me, I just never gave up. I continued to get a little bit better every year, and that drive that my mom and my father gave me got me a long way.
As I said, I wasn't the most talented guy. I went to -- I came from Killingworth, Connecticut. I went to all boys' Xavier High School, played for Coach Garska and Richie Magner, had a nice career there. I wasn't on the varsity team when I was a freshman, ended up playing there, played in American Legion. Never even thought about a draft. That was funny to me. I was like, well, I don't think we're at war, but the draft itself was not a possibility for me.
But I kept getting a little bit better. I was fortunate I played in Legion baseball where a lot of guys from the University of Hartford had gone, and I got a scholarship offer from the University of Hartford and Head Coach Bill Dehney. Pretty much my only place that I could go to school and play baseball, so I took that opportunity. I got to play -- I was a starting shortstop my freshman year, which gave me a lot of opportunity because if I went to a big school I probably wouldn't have played right off the get-go.
I hit for the cycle and added a home run my first game, made two errors at short and played third base the rest of my career, so that tells you how well I did at short.
So I went to University of Hartford. I played for Dan Gooley for two years. Coach Gooley, just a memorable time playing with you. We had such a great team. Two of my best friends in life, Chris Peterson and Greg Centracchio I met there. And for over 20 years, we've been best friends ever since. Types of things that you can't take away, and baseball brought that for us. That's what we lived and died with baseball, and now we do it with our kids. I thank you both so much.
So I got to play in Cape Cod. I truly believe that that's where I became -- that I thought I could play baseball a little bit past college. I started playing there with a bunch of guys that were on TV all the time: Robin Ventura, Joey Bell, which became Albert Bell. I mean, these guys were just tremendous players that I saw, but I realized that I could play, which really helped me. I went back to school there, and I got drafted in '89 by the Boston Red Sox, which was a dream come true. I mean, what I said earlier, that was my dream, and that's what happened. I mean, can you imagine I got back from a game, a college game at Fenway Park to come back to my dad's house and him throwing me a Red Sox tee shirt? It was pretty big for my family. I went to the Red Sox. I played in Low A, got to Double-A and got traded. I got traded to the Houston Astros, and I had no idea what I was getting into.
You know, I learned very early that it's a good thing, no matter what you do if you're a player, you just go out and play as hard as you can, make the organization do something for you, and they did. They traded me -- Bill Wood traded for me, the GM of the Houston Astros. They got me from the Red Sox. I'm not sure exactly if I was the first choice, but they had another guy that was playing third base at the time with the Red Sox named Wade Boggs that wasn't going anywhere there.
So I get traded and I asked who I got traded for. They said, Well, you got traded for Larry Anderson.
I said, Who's Larry Sanderson?
He says, He's a relief pitcher for the Astros, really good one. So I just thank Larry for being such a great reliever that the Red Sox wanted you. You did a great job with the Red Sox.
Larry used to always get on me when I went to Philadelphia and said, hey, man, you've got to step it up. People are not actually talking about me anymore. I was like, yeah, okay. So I did the best I can, I played my entire career, Larry, and I'm here. Is that good enough for you? Is that enough props?
I want to thank my other GMs, Bob Watson, Gerry Hunsicker. Gerry Hunsicker was a big part of such the big rebuild in our community and the Houston Astros and Austin GM, as all of them were. I had Tim Purpura and Ed Wade, Jeff Luhnow, who is there now and doing a tremendous job for the Houston Astros. What a fun team to watch, and very proud of them.
I thank my owners, my first owner John McMullen, signed my first paycheck with the Houston Astros, sorely missed, what a tremendous man. A lot of fun we had with him.
Drayton McClane, I can't tell you how much I appreciate everything you've done. I know Craig talked about earlier about playing our entire career with one organization. That takes a lot for players to do that in today's society, but it takes a lot from owners, too, and teams that they want to keep you around. We were very fortunate to have a give and take with the organization, Drayton McClane was a big part. You and Elizabeth have been a big part of my life for a long time. I truly appreciate everything you've ever done for me.
Jim Crane, the Astros' owner right now, I thank you so much for everything you've done for my family, everything you're doing for the Houston Astros. It's a class organization, and you're the head of that, and I appreciate everything you've ever done and are continuing to do.
I want to thank two of my trainers, Rex Jones and Dave Labossiere. Most of you know in Houston I played three years basically with about an arm and a half, and Dave and Rex would spend hours and hours grinding on my shoulder just to get me to play. I truly appreciate all the efforts you've given me to get that shoulder to do the best it could out there. So I want to thank you for that.
My clubhouse guys, and anybody that's sitting up here knows about clubhouse guys. They're very, very important. They don't get as much credit as they deserve and stuff that they do behind the scenes. I had a guy in Dennis Liborio, who I had my first year, who gave me No. 5 because he was mad at the Astros for trading Larry to the Red Sox. And I happened to be in Boston so he gave me a single digit number as a non-roster invitee. That does not happen. You see guys in the Big Leagues now with 67, 98. That's what you get for non-roster guys, but I got No. 5, so I was very fortunate with that.
Carl Schneider, Steve, Tweety and Phil Rozewicz, who I met in Milwaukee, who's been a great, dear friend of mine, and you do it right, my friend, and I appreciate everything you do.
My two other friends Barry Waters, my traveling secretary, has been there my entire career taking care of me and the entire Astros' organization. You were a special part of my life and still are. I appreciate that.
Barry Axelrod, my agent, you've been there for me through thick and thin, all the good times, all the bad times, like a lot of people I haven't mentioned. There's a lot of good and bad, but I want to thank you so much for everything you do.
I want to thank all my coaches who I've had that have been instrumental in my growth as a player. All of you were so great. With my swing, if anybody saw it, it's not something you want to teach to your kids. You spread out that far, I'm not really worried about the spreading out, but stepping backwards and dropping your hands is not really what you want to do.
But Rudy Jaramillio came up, a pleasure to see him earlier today, just the effort that you put into me every single day to always try to make me better, I really do appreciate that and all the times that we went in the back cage and worked. Even when you were the hitting coach for Texas and working with Pudge after a series, you would come and I'd meet you in the back cage and ask you what you saw, and you would tell me, so I truly, truly appreciate that.
The other coach I want to recognize is Matt Galante, which if you remember anything from Craig's speech, such a big, big part of Houston Astros' baseball, not only just a great baseball guy but just a great person, just someone you could go to for anything that you needed. He was a guy that would tell you when you stunk, and he'd tell you when you did well. You never not knew where you stood with Matt. The countless times that he went with me at first base doesn't compare to what he did for Craig. I watched him for hours and hours and hours work with guys to make them better, so I appreciate Matt, everything you've done.
The thing about my career that I'm proud of, you know, obviously you get here with tons of numbers, and I get that, and mine aren't overly glaring. But what I do take pride in is I thought I tried to do everything well. It wasn't just hitting home runs. Those are nice, but you've got RBIs and runs scored, and for me, runs scored was very important to me because it was a mindset, and I wanted to score for our team and I wanted to score for my other players to make their job a lot easier.
I truly, honestly, as I sit here, I enjoyed the stolen bases more than anything else. It's the only number I really cared about towards the end of my career, was getting 200 stolen bases. For a little guy with not much speed, I truly appreciated that. That's what I try to be for my teammates. If I could do everything, then I could help us win in different ways. I didn't just have to hit a home run or drive in a run. I could walk. I could steal a base. I could go first to home or second to home or first to third, whatever it might be. My bunt plays, I loved that when people had to change how they used to do bunts just to get away from me because I was on top of most of the pitchers, sometimes players, but more pitchers than anything else.
You know, baseball, as I talk about all this, baseball is truly about relationships. We spend so much time off the field together. More than you see on the field. Being on the field is wonderful. People say, well, I love playing baseball. Yeah, I love playing baseball, but I don't love stinking, and I don't love having O-fers and stuff like that. It's a grind out there. It's the relationships you make in the clubhouse with coaches, with clubhouse guys that really have gave me a unique opportunity to grow as a man, both on and off the field. And I don't take that lightly. It's very, very important to me.
I have had so many wonderful teammates. I really have, and I just wish I had time to talk about each and every one of them because that's how much you have meant to me in my life. The only thing I wanted to do was be a good teammate, somebody that you could count on, even when I wasn't feeling well or my arm hurt or whatever it was, that I was always out there and you knew you could look in the lineup and that I was there every day.
I'll talk just about a few of them. Casey Candaele, I learned so much about baseball through Casey, just the way he saw it. I was just a young kid when I first came to the Big Leagues and one of the things I remember is my first time I played in Atlanta, there was 5,000 people there, and you could hear the lies buzzing and things like that. Came back at the end of the year before they clinched and there was 40,000 people there, and literally the ground was shaking.
And I was sitting next to Casey, and I said, man, this is awesome. He goes, you -- I can't even say the words. He goes, this is what it's all about.
I took that, and I really understood that. He taught me so much about base running, how to be a good person, how to be a good player. Casey really, really helped me in my life, and to this day we're still very, very close friends.
Brad Ausmus, fellow Connecticut guy, spent a lot of time together, one of my closest friends in the entire world. He just -- he was so much fun to be around. He knew the game inside and out. He was a tremendous catcher. You know, just a close friend that I truly, truly cherish. We had some great times together, played in a lot of games together, spent a lot of time sitting in the locker discussing every single thing that you could imagine in life. Brad is very -- I hold him very, very dear to my heart.
As I said, baseball is about relationships. I want to say one thing. I'm a kid from Connecticut. Started to play baseball in 1997, the Florida Marlins won the World Series and traded a guy named Moises Alou to the Houston Astros. So very quickly in Spring Training, I got to become close with Moises, and our relationship grew and grew and grew. Been to the Dominican a few times with his family and his lovely wife, Austria. And two of my children, Bryce and Blake, their godparents are Moises and Austria. Where are you going to get that but in baseball? Where am I going to meet Moises except playing baseball. Just a tremendous, tremendous person. I love you so much, even though you're waving an Expos' hat.
My last teammate I want to talk about obviously is Craig Biggio. Thank you, kid, for that wonderful intro. That was great. Craig Biggio I've watched his entire career, when I first came up he was a catcher, played second base, centerfield, back to second base. Craig could do anything that he wanted to. You'll never meet a player who put more effort and time into his craft than Craig.
You know, as I sit here today and we go in the Hall of Fame, and Craig and I and pretty much in Houston we've been known to be together. It was Bagwell and Biggio, Biggio and Bagwell, however you want to say it, but now we'll always be here in the Hall of Fame together. I know his whole entire family, Patty and the kids, and just our relationship that has grown over so many years. And I can't thank you enough for just giving me inspiration to how to play every single day, post, and go out there, give everything you can. And Craig and I just wanted to win, and we wanted to win one way, and that was the right way, and I hope that's what we did, and I really thank Craig for that.
A couple last things. Baseball as I talked about relationships, I've also lost some teammates that I want to talk about. I lost Andujar Cedeno, lost Jose Lima. Ken Caminiti I lost, or we all lost all of them. That was a very, very tough thing. Cammy, I almost want to say that Cammy, his heart was too big. He was the nicest guy in the entire world. Took me in when I was supposed to take his job. It was just a wonderful thing for him and our relationship and his family, with Craig and Patty and Cammy. All the kids grew up, and it was a pleasure.
And the others I want to talk about is Darryl Kile. There's not one day that goes by that I don't think about Darryl Kile. He died way too early. Thankfully he died peacefully. But I can't tell you how many times that we've talked on the phone and talked about going fishing around the world, and just the type of person and his family, great father, great husband. And DK, man, you are sorely missed, buddy, but I know you're down here somewhere, so thank you.
Lastly, I want to thank the Astros' fans. You guys have been absolutely wonderful. I can't tell you how much being around you guys in the city and showing me the love and my family, this is where my kids were born, this is where my kids were raised. I love you so much for everything that you've done for me.
I was thinking over the last few months doing this thing, I was thinking about something. I was thinking about my father and me, my father would come home at 6:00 at night, take off his shoes, we'd go outside play catch, play pepper, play baseball. Then about 7 o'clock, we would try and turn on the Red Sox game. I'd have to go up on the roof and mess with the antenna and stuff like that. Obviously we had no cable back then, but it was time that I spent with my father.
We would sit there at the table or watch the games, my dad would talk about his favorite player Ted Williams. We'd talk about Yaz, we'd talk about Fisk, talk about Rice, talk about Boggs. What we were doing is spending quality time together as a family. And if I could have given you guys anything for being at the dinner table or going to a game and to watch us play and to watch me play and I brought some joy, then I was helping bring you joy in a world that can be tough sometimes, but if you enjoy me playing and it brought our families together, then I did my job. Thank you.

THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for George Springer.

Q. Can you just talk about your emotions. It's been a long time since you guys were in West Palm in February and to get to accomplish this next step.
GEORGE SPRINGER: Yeah, first and foremost that's a great team over there and for to us come out and beat them is obviously huge for us. And it's been a long year, it's been a great year for us and I'm glad our team could take the next step.

Q. It was a very tense afternoon, Sale's rolling through things, and it's like, what was the tension level, the nervousness, waiting for somebody to do something?
GEORGE SPRINGER: Yeah, when they took the lead it was, at least for myself, it was, all we got to do is just score one and breathe. And this guy hit the homer here and obviously whenever a guy like Sale comes out of the bullpen you know it's not going to be easy. Him and Price both were electric. And for us to scratch and claw like that was obviously big.

Q. What was the mood, tension like or was it lifted when he hit the ball over the Monster?
GEORGE SPRINGER: Man, that was a sigh of relief, to know that it's at least put back even and now I have to score again. And that was the game therefore him to hit that homer off of him was huge.

Q. George, what's it mean to do it here so close to your hometown or your hometown ballpark?
GEORGE SPRINGER: Yeah, it's obviously cool, it's great. I have my family is here, my fiance's family is here, so it's cool. But I don't care if it's here or somewhere else, I'm just happy to be going on.

Q. Alex, could you talk about the at-bat against Sale and what he was trying to do to you and how you got what you wanted?
ALEX BREGMAN: Yeah, when we were back home he started me off with a changeup and then he ended up striking me out my third at-bat when we were back home on a changeup. And I was looking for it the whole day. I got a little anxious my first at-bat and kind of came off it and popped it up to center, because I was so excited that I got it and I guessed right. I told myself that I would get it again, I just needed to stay close and stay on it and I was fortunate enough to put a good swing on it.

Q. What was it like? What was the emotions as you're rounding the bases and now there's light at the end of the tunnel for the club?
ALEX BREGMAN: It's huge. I had all the confidence in the world that we were going to find a way to scratch and claw like we have done all year and get the lead back. I was in the dugout and Alex Cora came up to me and said, hey, one at-bat, that's all that matters. I was 0-10 going into that my last 10 at-bats. And he said, one at-bat, that's it, have some fun, play the game how you did the beginning of the series, just having fun. I was fortunate enough to get a good pitch to hit and put a good swing on it.

Q. Would you guys, both of you, talk about now taking the next step and what you're feeling, the sense of accomplishment of what you've done so far, I know this is not the last thing you want to do, but this is pretty cool now you're in the final four.
ALEX BREGMAN: Yeah, this is, we envisioned ourselves being here since the beginning of the year and nothing really changes on our end. We're going to keep showing up to the yard every day, having fun, competing, playing the game the right way, playing it hard, and playing for each other. I think honestly this game, going to Game 4, coming down to the wire in a hostile environment's going to help us for the rest of the postseason and give us confidence moving forward.

GEORGE SPRINGER: Yeah, it doesn't matter who we play next, it's going to be a great team. Whether it's Cleveland or New York. And for us to at least be in this environment -- I know this is my first time -- it's going to be big for us, to know what we're up against, and it's a big step forward for us, but the goal is obviously at the end of it and our squad is going to go out and play our game and just keep having fun.

Q. And you're down by a run and Chris Sale's pitching and A.J. said, no, our guys don't get tense or nervous, it was just keep grinding, keep grinding, something will happen.
GEORGE SPRINGER: Yeah, but with that, as a hitter, you know the guy's going to make a mistake at some point and it's all about can you capitalize on that at that point in time. He did and that was huge. Beltran's at-bat in the 9th and that was obviously huge for us and to stay calm there facing Sale, I mean he's a Cy Young guy, my hat's off to that guy, he's unbelievable. For to us come out and scratch one across there was huge for us.

Q. So did you guys look up in the middle of the game and note that it was Verlander versus Sale?
GEORGE SPRINGER: Yeah, that was a little weird.

ALEX BREGMAN: Definitely. But I tell you this, when we saw Verlander run to the pen we said, our horse is on the mound, we need to win this game. That's kind of the whole energy that he's brought since we brought him over here. He's brought an energy with him that, hey, when he's out there, we're going to win. There's something special about him.

Q. I was going to ask sort of the same question, but with both aces in the game does that drive the point home that this is a big moment and it's really the time to rise?
ALEX BREGMAN: Yeah, for sure. Both teams were throwing their guys and that's what you live for, that's what we live for as baseball players, those moments, big-time situations. But I tell you what, our team puts pressure on ourselves and each other in practice and so that way when the pressure situations come in the game, we're prepared.

Q. What's the emotion like after a game like this, and can you take me through the 8th inning just as it unfolded for you a little bit?
A.J. HINCH: Sure. Well, the emotion is great on the back end. It's pretty agonizing during the game and we're pretty exhausted. But what an emotional day for us. Obviously it was a big game. You got a lot of different things working throughout the whole game, really from the very beginning. Was it going to rain, was it not going to rain, the two big boys, Sale and Verlander both get into the game, everybody did well. Nobody really wanted to concede the game. In the 8th inning, the Bregman Homer was really something that was very emotional for our dugout. I think that Chris Sale had pitched so well for the entire stretch, we did feel like he was tiring a little bit. But that doesn't make him easier to hit. So our guys just hung in there the whole time. We had a ton of opportunities early. So to be able to get back in the game, even though it was a one-run game. Was pretty emotional. Our dugout woke up.

Q. What does it mean for you to lead this team to the ALCS and represent the city of Houston after all you've been through?
A.J. HINCH: No, it's big. We felt like that we could win this series, but we knew it was going to be tough. We get out to a 2-0 lead, and then you come to Fenway and it's just a different animal. These fans know baseball, they're excitable. They know the moments and it's a tough place to play. You play a couple close games, they stretched their lead yesterday, but it was still a close game until the end. It's not easy to close these guys out. So hat tip to the guys across the way. They played extremely hard. But our guys just stayed the course, and to advance -- obviously, we have a couple guys that are playoff tested, but to advance is the whole goal when you get into this division series. So now we have one more challenge ahead of us and then we'll continue to try to work towards our ultimate goal, which is to win the whole thing.

Q. Can you go into what went into the decision to ask Justin to do something he's never done before in his career and how did that conversation with him go pregame and what led you to do it when you did it?
A.J. HINCH: Well, the number one question for us is how long was the rain going to stay off or when was it going to come or what was going to happen. So we thought it could be a broken game from the very beginning. So we talked to Verlander before the game and just said, hey, if Charlie goes and then there's a pause or there's a break in the action and we need to resume and we have the lead, we may turn to you for the bridge to try to get to Giles. And the game didn't end up that way, right? It ended up the rain came on and off again, and we and once I saw Sale pitch, before any sort of rain delay, there was an indication -- they know the weather better than we do, there was a little bit of an indication that, hey, we may have a bigger window than we expected. And then as the game unfolded and we got the lead, I felt really good about it. And Justin Verlander wanted the ball. He was very good about preparation. It did cut out of his routine, which is the one thing you question. He's been doing this routine for 13 years, but he comes in and has the emotion of the home run, and just like that, kind of a lesser man might have caved in that situation because of the big moment, woke up the crowd, Benintendi's circling the bases. Those outs after that were pretty huge. And getting the ball to Ken Giles with the lead was the whole goal. I'm glad our team came back and ultimately got the lead for Justin.

Q. What are your emotions right now? It's been along journey, the next step?
A.J. HINCH: I'm exhausted. Those are my emotions. This is a hard fought, a lot of moving parts type series, where they're not easy outs over there. So trying to matchup with those guys, trying to win in this ballpark was tough. But we're thrilled to advance and that's what we came out to do. When we had the 2-0 lead, you got to be careful not to assume too much. We brought our bags to the ballpark today because we were going back to Houston one way or the other. We're happy to go back as the division series champions, but there was nothing assumed here. We knew we were going to have to face some of their best pitching to get to the finish line and we ended up beating them. You give them a one-run lead and you have Chris Sale handing the ball to Craig Kimbrel, more times than not, it's an uphill battle. But our guys fought.

Q. What's the pride you have in your group, the way they endured this series, the whole season?
A.J. HINCH: I think that it's the steady approach that our guys have been able to maintain. We got a ton of energy, we got a ton of athleticism and we have a lot of different players that are in different parts of their career. We got some young guys that are just getting here who came up huge. Alex Bregman's home run. We got guys here who have been here and had the lean years and really are enjoying being on good teams. Altuve, Keuchel. And then you have some veterans with Beltran, and McCann, and Reddick, Charlie Morton signed here. To see that all come together into one of the closes knit teams that I've ever been on or been around, I'm very proud as the manager because they represent the Astros, they represent the city of Houston, ultimately me as their manager. You walk into that room every day and you're happy to be there. And that's a definite responsibility of the players to create that chemistry that everybody feels.

Q. So they have Chris Sale in there and he's going good and you're down, you're in a close game, what's the dugout like? What's the tension level?
A.J. HINCH: It wasn't really tense as much as it was just grinding. You're out there trying to find any semblance of an opportunity and you try not to think back to the first and the second. We had Porcello on the ropes a couple times. He got a couple big punch-outs. We had Sale a couple times, guys on base, we couldn't quite create anything. So there wasn't any tension. Our team's never tense. There was dancing going on, there was yelling going on. We're a loose, loose team by nature, and our guys stayed that way. We were just, stay after him, stay after him, stay after him, and someone was going to come up with a big hit. Happened to be Bregman to tie it, and then those at-bats in the 8th, the at-bat by Beltran in the 9th. It's been a consistent characteristic of our team to keep fighting, and today we needed it.

Q. Rooting for the Yankees now?
A.J. HINCH: I don't really root for anybody. I root for the Astros, so we'll play anybody that advances.

Q. From a manager's perspective how tough are these decisions to pull the starters? And two straight days, Liriano and Verlander, what's that like, your personal journey today?
A.J. HINCH: Yeah, no, it's, managers, we're judged on results, but yet we work on process. We're prepared, we want to put our guys in a position to be successful. When they're successful it's the proud, the proud father moment. When they're not successful you take all the blame. But the one thing I try to make sure that I do for me is, you can lose playing conservatively, too. It's very easy to go to the bullpen and leave Justin Verlander out of it. But our job's to try to win, it's not to try not to lose. And we had an opportunity to do that, when it doesn't work out, as long as I'm prepared, as long as I feel like I did the right thing by what our plan was, then I can live with the result. Doesn't make you feel any better when Benintendi's running around the bases, that's a pretty low moment for a manager, probably just under the pitcher. But I'm proud of the fight that these guys have and, quite honestly, it's just a staple of who we are.

Q. You guys seem to have changed coming home from Tampa, the hurricane, Verlander, Correa, all that, you've just been a different team since then. Do you agree with that?
A.J. HINCH: Well I agree with it in the sense that, where we were in the season, that the focus shifts a little bit. We would never assume that we were going to win the division until we won it. But there was a sight line in line. We had 10 or 11, 12, 15-game lead whatever it was, with 30 days to play, you start to sense that moment where you're going to clinch. And then the postseason. And so our guys collected ourselves. The Justin Verlander trade and the Carlos Correa getting healthy are two major acquisitions at a time where we needed it. And so we weren't really a different team as much as we started to focus on the right things.

Q. What you did for the city, and what the city did for you.
A.J. HINCH: Yeah, the city, the city of Houston is still rebuilding and it's easy for us to look in the rearview mirror and think that the hurricane is over and the rebuild starts and is not going to stop for a long time. So our -- we're proud to wear our patch -- I don't have it on this T-shirt -- but we're proud to wear that Houston Strong patch, it was very emotional, probably the most emotions I've ever had on a field the day we played the double header, when you had our city under water and some fans that came out. And then we want to win, we want to win for them, we want to win for us we want to win because we showed up in spring training to try to win a World Series.



Find us on	ASAP sports on Facebook	ASAP sports on Twitter

ASAP Sports RSS	Subscribe to RSS

Click to go to
Asaptext.com	ASAPtext.com

ASAP Sports e-Brochure	View our
e-Brochure


AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX VS ASTROS

October 9, 2017

John Farrell

Boston, Massachusetts - postgame 4

Astros - 5, Red Sox - 4.

THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for John Farrell, please.

Q. Obviously Sale and Kimbrel have been so good for you all season. How comfortable do you feel with them in the 8th inning with a one-run lead?
JOHN FARRELL: Very comfortable, especially the four innings Chris had pitched to that point. We take the lead on a big swing from Bennie, and as efficient as Chris was, just the command was there, and he gets a 2-1 changeup to Bregman, obviously we saw the result of it. But in a position with six outs to go, up a run, and Chris Sale who was still strong, still throwing the ball extremely well, I felt like we were in a good position.

Q. Kimbrel had been so good all year. What do you think happened with him today?
JOHN FARRELL: Even in some of the appearances we saw before the end of the regular season and in the inning of work down in Houston, they put up tough at-bats against him. Typically we're so accustomed to seeing a lot of swing and miss when Craig is on the mound. They fought off some good pitchers' pitches to get deep in counts and then were able to put some balls in play. I know he's trying to run a fastball in closer to Reddick on the 3-2 pitch that leaks back over the out half that's he's able to push a ground ball through the other side for the go-ahead run, but we had arguably our two best pitchers or two really good pitchers to close things out to get the final six outs, they got the job done.

Q. What did you say that led to the ejection and where did you spend the rest of the game watching it?
JOHN FARRELL: I went out to get Peddy away from Mark Wegner. Obviously it was a key moment. Peddy obviously disagreed with the call that was made. I did not argue balls and strike and yet that was a little surprising when I was ejected at that point. So for whatever reason, he felt like -- there was nothing derogatory or directed straight at him, I never argued balls and strikes, it was a really quick hook.

Q. So if you didn't argue balls and strikes, then what do you think?
JOHN FARRELL: The reason he gave me is I'm not going to have you stand here and yell at me.

I said I'm trying to get my player away from him. It was more important to me that Peddy remain in the game and the rest took care of itself.

Q. You anticipating Sale to go that long or was it sort of a situation with Price yesterday, he kind of just kept putting up zeros?
JOHN FARRELL: No, Chris was one day short of his normal rest, so he was in good shape from a physical standpoint. As efficient and as pinpoint in his control was to that point, he was still in good shape, I thought.

Q. Did you consider a right-hander against Bregman?
JOHN FARRELL: Yeah, considered it, recognizing where what his power numbers are and his splits are left, right, and not taking anything for granted. We wanted to be left-handed through the bottom part of that order, particularly the reverse splits of Gurriel, and as well as he's been swinging the bat this series, 2-1 changeup stayed in the middle of the plate.

Q. Can you talk about the momentum and what you guys were feeling during this game and I'm sure the confidence that at some point was pretty high there?
JOHN FARRELL: It's been high since we returned from Houston. We play a really good game yesterday, we comeback in a tight ball game, Bennie gives us a big swing, a big swing of the bat obviously and a change in momentum. And then with Chris on the mound, we felt like that confidence was growing with each pitch that he threw. But even right down to the end obviously with Raffey's inside-the-park home run, there was still energy, still life that you could feel.

Q. Did you feel like you guys were up against a better team the whole time and did you deliver a message to your players after the game?
JOHN FARRELL: Yes, I spoke to them. I guess in short, it's always tough when you end the season so abruptly, but extremely proud for the way they compete, the work that they put in for seven full months, the way they care for one another. Just wanted to thank them from that. But it's just you go a hundred miles an hour and then all of a sudden it feels like you face plant in a wall when the season's over. So that was pretty much the message.

Q. Understanding this is quite new, but how did you feel it went given the David Ortiz's retirement and all the other changes that you had on the team this year?
JOHN FARRELL: Like I said, extremely proud for the way we went out and worked, the way we I think we're a very competitive team throughout. We won a lot of baseball games. You win the division, that's I think a major accomplishment. We didn't meet all of our goals, that's obvious by the ending here today. But we have seen some really good young players continue to develop. We had a number of challenges thrown our way from individual injuries to performance, but as a team, they stuck together. They care for one another and they fully compete right to the end. The resiliency we talked about, but this is a very competitive, close-knit team.

Q. What do you feel is needed to get you guys beyond the hump of this division series and do you feel like you're the manager who can do that?
JOHN FARRELL: Personally, yes, I feel confident in that. I know that we have got opportunity to assess where we are as a team. I can't begin to walk about what the off-season plans are and what the changes may be realized, but still there's a lot of good things that are going on here.

Q. I know you're under contract. Do you expect to be back for the 2018 season?
JOHN FARRELL: Again, we just walked off the field 10 minutes ago.

Q. How tough an opponent was this Houston team? Was this one of the tougher teams you ever have gone up against in the playoffs?
JOHN FARRELL: Very deep. Tremendous offense. Their performance all year long showed that, proved that. They're a quick-strike offense, two-out capability. You're never out of an inning. They're a very good team. I think we showed that we are, too, in this series as it returned here to Fenway. But, yeah, they're a very good team.

THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for John Farrell, please.

Q. Obviously Sale and Kimbrel have been so good for you all season. How comfortable do you feel with them in the 8th inning with a one-run lead?
JOHN FARRELL: Very comfortable, especially the four innings Chris had pitched to that point. We take the lead on a big swing from Bennie, and as efficient as Chris was, just the command was there, and he gets a 2-1 changeup to Bregman, obviously we saw the result of it. But in a position with six outs to go, up a run, and Chris Sale who was still strong, still throwing the ball extremely well, I felt like we were in a good position.

Q. Kimbrel had been so good all year. What do you think happened with him today?
JOHN FARRELL: Even in some of the appearances we saw before the end of the regular season and in the inning of work down in Houston, they put up tough at-bats against him. Typically we're so accustomed to seeing a lot of swing and miss when Craig is on the mound. They fought off some good pitchers' pitches to get deep in counts and then were able to put some balls in play. I know he's trying to run a fastball in closer to Reddick on the 3-2 pitch that leaks back over the out half that's he's able to push a ground ball through the other side for the go-ahead run, but we had arguably our two best pitchers or two really good pitchers to close things out to get the final six outs, they got the job done.

Q. What did you say that led to the ejection and where did you spend the rest of the game watching it?
JOHN FARRELL: I went out to get Peddy away from Mark Wegner. Obviously it was a key moment. Peddy obviously disagreed with the call that was made. I did not argue balls and strike and yet that was a little surprising when I was ejected at that point. So for whatever reason, he felt like -- there was nothing derogatory or directed straight at him, I never argued balls and strikes, it was a really quick hook.

Q. So if you didn't argue balls and strikes, then what do you think?
JOHN FARRELL: The reason he gave me is I'm not going to have you stand here and yell at me.

I said I'm trying to get my player away from him. It was more important to me that Peddy remain in the game and the rest took care of itself.

Q. You anticipating Sale to go that long or was it sort of a situation with Price yesterday, he kind of just kept putting up zeros?
JOHN FARRELL: No, Chris was one day short of his normal rest, so he was in good shape from a physical standpoint. As efficient and as pinpoint in his control was to that point, he was still in good shape, I thought.

Q. Did you consider a right-hander against Bregman?
JOHN FARRELL: Yeah, considered it, recognizing where what his power numbers are and his splits are left, right, and not taking anything for granted. We wanted to be left-handed through the bottom part of that order, particularly the reverse splits of Gurriel, and as well as he's been swinging the bat this series, 2-1 changeup stayed in the middle of the plate.

Q. Can you talk about the momentum and what you guys were feeling during this game and I'm sure the confidence that at some point was pretty high there?
JOHN FARRELL: It's been high since we returned from Houston. We play a really good game yesterday, we comeback in a tight ball game, Bennie gives us a big swing, a big swing of the bat obviously and a change in momentum. And then with Chris on the mound, we felt like that confidence was growing with each pitch that he threw. But even right down to the end obviously with Raffey's inside-the-park home run, there was still energy, still life that you could feel.

Q. Did you feel like you guys were up against a better team the whole time and did you deliver a message to your players after the game?
JOHN FARRELL: Yes, I spoke to them. I guess in short, it's always tough when you end the season so abruptly, but extremely proud for the way they compete, the work that they put in for seven full months, the way they care for one another. Just wanted to thank them from that. But it's just you go a hundred miles an hour and then all of a sudden it feels like you face plant in a wall when the season's over. So that was pretty much the message.

Q. Understanding this is quite new, but how did you feel it went given the David Ortiz's retirement and all the other changes that you had on the team this year?
JOHN FARRELL: Like I said, extremely proud for the way we went out and worked, the way we I think we're a very competitive team throughout. We won a lot of baseball games. You win the division, that's I think a major accomplishment. We didn't meet all of our goals, that's obvious by the ending here today. But we have seen some really good young players continue to develop. We had a number of challenges thrown our way from individual injuries to performance, but as a team, they stuck together. They care for one another and they fully compete right to the end. The resiliency we talked about, but this is a very competitive, close-knit team.

Q. What do you feel is needed to get you guys beyond the hump of this division series and do you feel like you're the manager who can do that?
JOHN FARRELL: Personally, yes, I feel confident in that. I know that we have got opportunity to assess where we are as a team. I can't begin to walk about what the off-season plans are and what the changes may be realized, but still there's a lot of good things that are going on here.

Q. I know you're under contract. Do you expect to be back for the 2018 season?
JOHN FARRELL: Again, we just walked off the field 10 minutes ago.

Q. How tough an opponent was this Houston team? Was this one of the tougher teams you ever have gone up against in the playoffs?
JOHN FARRELL: Very deep. Tremendous offense. Their performance all year long showed that, proved that. They're a quick-strike offense, two-out capability. You're never out of an inning. They're a very good team. I think we showed that we are, too, in this series as it returned here to Fenway. But, yeah, they're a very good team.

Q. Didi, Joe just told us he spoke with you guys before Game 3 and said, Just win one game. He also said he owned his mistake from Game 2. How meaningful do you think that meeting was, just to get things focused?
DIDI GREGORIUS: I mean, like you say, he talked to us for a little bit. Have a quick meeting. He admitted, like you say, he admitted to it. It just shows everybody is United. Everybody has accountability. That's the best thing. If you made a mistake, you admit it. You pass it on. That's in the past.

All he told us, Hey, let's play one game at a time right now, and that's all we can control right now. Whatever happened in the past happened in the past. We, as a team, we always have each other's back.

Q. I know it's about the team and that focus. I know you're going to tell me that. But for you as a kid growing up, dreaming about playing in games like this, could you ever imagine a night like this for you and your team?
DIDI GREGORIUS: I mean, like you say, as a kid, we always want to play in a big situation. The first thing, you want to make it to the big leagues, watching everybody play in the big leagues, see all the players, awesome careers that they're having. I wanted to be also a major league player when I was growing up. Then I worked for it.

Now that I'm here, being in this unbelievable, unbelievable organization, everything, all the history and everything that's been here with the team, and guys are helping each other, backing each other up, everybody is protecting each other, it's the best thing because everybody is together and the team is really united.

For me to be here with these guys is just unbelievable, amazing, young team that we've got.

Q. Didi, you hit two home runs tonight off Corey Kluber. What did you do in those at-bats? What pitches were you looking for? Take me through the two at-bats.
DIDI GREGORIUS: Not taking anything away from the possible Cy Young winner, but I'm always -- when I'm going up to it, I'm always looking for a fastball. So I'm trying to stay ready for the fastball and off-speed pitches. If you see it in the first at-bat, he threw me a really nasty cutter, swing and miss.

Then after that, he tried to come in with another fastball with two strikes, and I ended up putting a really good swing on it. It put us up in the first inning.

Then my next at-bat, I was like if they threw me the nasty cutter the first pitch, I might swing. Then he threw it actually and I fouled it off. I said, all right, get back to fastball away, and then I think he threw me a curveball or slider or cutter inside again, and I ended up putting a good swing on it and it went out.

Q. Didi, you come in, you replace a guy named Derek Jeter. That had to be a tremendous amount of pressure on you. Can you talk about where you were then compared to having a night like tonight?
DIDI GREGORIUS: Well, question never gets old. To be honest, I mean, it was just after he played his long, successful career here in New York, I'm the guy to follow him up. It's amazing for me to be in this organization and just being awesome with all these guys. Everybody's here helping each other. I'm going to keep saying that so many times. If you guys get tired of it, let me know.

Everybody helps each other out here. Everybody wants each other to be good. I think that's the motto since I got here, since '15. First day, I was really comfortable with all these guys. I got a warm welcome from everybody. It just shows how together everybody is going to be.

So it was really amazing for me, after a couple years I'd had in the major leagues, playing with the Reds and the Diamondbacks, to be here, get traded over. It's been an awesome run with all these guys.

Q. Didi, you've evolved into a middle-of-the-order type-hitter, which I don't know that a lot of people thought you were going to be that player when you first came up. How much do you enjoy that and how does that kind of happen to where you've kind of become a power threat and an RBI by when you were supposed to be more of a defensive player when you came to the big leagues?
DIDI GREGORIUS: Well, this is the thing. Everybody, I mean, there's a lot of times guys put label on a person without letting the person develop, let a person -- they always predict something before everything. This guy can only play defense or this guy can only play offense. But you don't know how hard a guy works to get where he wants to be, to stay where he wants to be and to keep making adjustments every year to try to get better.

I'm not going to say every player in the big leagues is going to hit .300, because it's hard. I'm not going to say every player in the big league is going to hit 30 homers because it's not easy to hit 30 homers. I didn't expect to hit 25 homers after missing a month. I'm playing the game. If I hit a home run, I hit a home run. I'm not going out to try to hit home runs every time.

For me, I always believed in myself. There's always people that are going to doubt you, people that are going to do everything. At the end it's up to you how hard you want to work. And not promoting, try to do everything, hey, look at me, I'm doing this and that so other people can see. If you work out in the dark or whatever, it just shows up during, for me, during like the season.

If you keep making improvements, people see, okay, he's working on something. You don't have to do everything for other people. For me, everything starts for myself. If I believe in myself, that I can be a good player, why am I going to change my mind?

So, for me, just try to be a really good player, try to take advantage of everything. That's the one way I look at it.

Q. Joe, you left here last Friday night down 2-0, and it didn't look really good. What do you attribute to the total turnaround in this series?
JOE GIRARDI: Just the fight in our club. We win a game, 1-0, that's a tremendous pitchers duel and you think about how that went about. Tanaka throws a tremendous game and Greg Bird hits a homer off Andrew Miller, who doesn't give them up.

Come back the next day and you win. Seve pitches a good game.

I just look at our at-bats, the at-bats that Didi had today, the at-bats that Gardy had. There's just a ton of fight in this club.

It's a great mixture of youth and veteran players that are leading the way, and it's hard to believe, because we just beat a really, really good team.

Q. Joe, what do you make of Didi's at-bats, the two home runs? I believe he was down, what, 0-2, 1-2?
JOE GIRARDI: He got a bunch of two-out hits today. It's interesting. We put him in the 4 slot because we had some injuries. We lost Hicks, we lost Castro and we lost Holliday all at the same time. We were trying to spread out left-handers and he seemed to thrive in that position.

Became an RBI machine for us, and we've left him up in the order against these guys. I started thinking we need to separate our righties, but Didi's at-bats have been great all year. He drove in almost 90 runs and missed a month of the season. It's pretty remarkable the season that he's had for us.

And the double play that he turned on Lindor is not an easy play. Without his arm strength, he doesn't do that, and that could change the game.

Q. Chapman, another save of more than one inning success tonight. Can you just talk about his willingness to do that?
JOE GIRARDI: Chappy wants to win. Chappy's a winner and that's why we went out and got him again because we knew that he was really, really good at what he did. And he has obviously pitched in the World Series and loves the competition. I mean, his innings were great this whole series.

And everybody, everyone played a part in this. I don't think there's anyone that didn't play a part in this, and that's the great thing about it. And the fight in these guys, so proud of them.

Q. Joe, couple things. Number one, the last time you were here, you had many, many questions about a lot of things. Talk about the emotions now that you're feeling now that you've come all the way back to win the series.
And I don't know if anyone had asked you, because I came a little late, talk about Gardner's at-bat, because that may have been the best at-bat I've ever seen.

JOE GIRARDI: The two at-bats, the one he had off of Miller too was a tremendous at-bat. To be able to add those runs.

For me, I start to worry when you have a long inning and you don't score, it affects your pitcher going back out there. Chappy ended up walking the first guy. I was like if we're going to have long at-bats and this really long inning, we need to score some runs. Just a great at-bat by Gardy, a heads-up play by Frazier. To be able to tack on two runs was really important.

The emotions from, I'm trying to think when we were here. Friday. The difference between Friday and today is about as big as you can get. I don't at any point in my career that I felt worse than I did on Friday.

As I expressed many times, it's the hurt for the other people that is so hard for me. So the emotions, I mean, these guys had my back and they fought and fought. And, again, they beat a really, really good team.

Q. Joe, I've got two questions. The first one, after Game 2, did the players or anybody in particular say something to you that stuck with you that was important to you going into Game 3 and then so forth?
JOE GIRARDI: No. Well, I met with the club before we went into that game and talked about just winning one game and how all year long, that I believed in them from the day we left Spring Training, and I believe in them now, and that you've always had good at-bats. You've grinded out pitches when you're on pitching, and you've never quit.

Continue to have each other's back and let's win one game. And Todd Frazier was the first guy that said something. Let's go. And that did stick out in my mind. I'll never forget that. Because, again, I was about as low as I could be as a baseball player or baseball coach or whatever I was. And, I mean, it's been -- Friday. It happened on Friday. I've been carrying this burden for five or six days. It's hard. If we lose on Sunday, it really hurts. If we lose on Monday, it really, really hurts. If we would have lost today, it probably would have hurt even worse.

So, for me, what those guys did for me, I'll never forget it.

Q. Did you address Game 2 in that meeting?
JOE GIRARDI: Yeah. I told them I screwed up. Plain and simple. I mean, there's no running around it. And I thought -- you know, I mean, I make mistakes. I'm human. I wish I would have had another 15 seconds, but I didn't, and I'll learn from it. Now I might be throwing challenges out every play.

Q. I know CC didn't get the win, but he kept their bats in check until the fifth. What did you think of his performance?
JOE GIRARDI: Just, again, that's CC. That's who he is. That's been who he's been his whole life, the guy you can count on. And he did it again tonight. This is a very good offense. Everyone wants to talk about their pitching. Their offense is really, really good too.

And we were able to hold them in check for the most part.

Q. I'm going to ask you about Didi. Can you describe what he did tonight?
JOE GIRARDI: Well, I mean, just a huge lift. To give us a lead and then to give us the 3-0 lead was even bigger. One of the bigger plays might have been the double play he turned. So Didi had an incredible night tonight.

And that's the other thing. It's come from different places, and you get in the playoffs sometimes and you look up, and a guy's hitting .150 or .200, but they won a game for you by themselves. And that's the way it is. That's the great thing about this team. There are so many players that can do it. Tonight, it was Didi.

Q. Going into the season, there was a lot of talk of the future of which team, maybe not so much on the present what you guys could do this year. Does it make it more satisfying that you kind of beat the odds a little bit?
JOE GIRARDI: I don't look at it as beating the odds, because I said from day one, when the season started, I thought we could be really, really good and fight for our division. We did that. Because I saw the talent.

I got a little depressed when Didi got hurt in the World Baseball Classic, but somebody picked him up. Torreyes picked him up. Sanchez went down and Romine picked him up.

Guys kept picking each other up and I thought they kept growing and maturing as players. We believed, not everyone believed in us, because I don't think people knew what you were going to get out of an Aaron Judge. I don't think people know what you would get out of Gary Sanchez or Luis Severino. We believed in our players. They've made a difference.

This whole team, what everyone has contributed has made the difference.
